D: How old are Luffy, Zoro, Nami, and Shanks, respectively?
O: Ages, huh? This question came up a lot. Like, a whole lot. In terms of sheer volume, I bet this was the #1 question! Let's answer! Currently, Luffy is 17, Zoro is 19, and Nami is 18. As for Shanks, since I don't know where he is now, I'll give his age from 10 years ago. He was 27 when he was in Luffy's village. Oh, and Usopp is also 17, same as Luffy.
D: Why are all the villains just way too sketchy?
O: Huh… Sketchy…? Well, now that you mention it, they are pretty shady. But y'know what? I think that sketchiness is actually mystery. They've got a certain charm, don't you think?
D: Eiichiro Oda-sensei, is it true your arms and legs can stretch? It's written in "Jump", but…
O: Whoa! It should say right there that it's a secret.
D: A question for Oda-sensei: What do you do with the things you receive from fans?
O: They’re in my room. All of them. By the way, every single letter and postcard I've ever gotten? I've read them all, not a single one missed. They honestly give me so much energy. I'm not exaggerating when I say these are why I can keep working as a mangaka. Thank you everyone.
D: About the origin or inspiration for Zoro's name, isn't it based on the pirate "François l'Olonnais"?'
O: That’s correct. I took the name from François l'Olonnais, who's reputed to be the cruelest of the so-called 'Caribbean pirates.' And "Morgan" and "Alvida", both of them are also real historical pirate names.
D: Why does Luffy have absolutely no 'sense of tension' whatsoever?
O: That’s definitely because the guy's a total idiot. Huhuhu.
D: Luffy's treasure is his straw hat. So, is your treasure also a straw hat, sensei? If not, tell me~~!!
O: My treasure? Ah, of course, it's ALL OF YOU, MY READERS!
D: Why is Mohji's hair styled like that?
O: He was just born that way. Only those two patches grow long easily. Leave them unattended, and he’d look like a rabbit.
D: I came up with a new move for Luffy! Step 1: He uses 'Rubber-Rubber Balloon' to inflate his belly. Step 2: Then, he stabs a hole in him with 'Rubber-Rubber Pistol' (or Zoro's sword, if you prefer). Step 3: A BIG EXPLOSION!! The name will be 'Rubber-Rubber 'Explosion' '!!
O: Thanks for thinking about it! But, Luffy would die, y'know? He would.
D: How far can Luffy's arms stretch?  Please tell me.
O: They stretch quite a bit. Right now they stretch about 72 Gomu Gomus. Luffy said the other day that he wants to be able to stretch them to 100 Gomu Gomus.
D: Nice to meet you. Thanks to you, Oda-sensei, I was able to successfully enroll in high school. Thank you very much.
O: Yeah....................................................... Huh?!
D: How did you come up with the characters' names?
O: The names are... well, they just seem to come off as nice names. Sometimes they're taken from real pirates, and sometimes they're not.
D: Why does Luffy always refuse to kill his enemies? When reading the manga, he didn't kill Mohji, and he also didn't kill Helmeppoo Captain Morgan. Morgan was killed by Zoro, but why?
O: Ah, that's a good question. First of all, Morgan is still alive. Right now, he is in prison thanks to his former subordinates. Why not kill him? In this era, people are risking their lives for their beliefs and fighting for them. Luffy is shattering his enemies' beliefs in battle. For enemies, having their beliefs crushed and being defeated is equivalent to experiencing pain as if they were dead. I believe, the question of whether to kill or not is secondary; winning or losing is what matters to those pirates.
D: So, Sensei, do you like animals? I have this feeling that in each cover art, there's always at least one animal...
O: Indeed, there are animals on the cover arts. While it's true that I like them, I think my level of affection for them is 'average'. I just enjoy drawing animals. There's something fun about capturing that fluffy feeling. In particular, I like pandas who look comically funny by nature, and wombats who seem like they could be on a wanted poster. Oh, and I also like the expression on owls that look like they were shot at with a gun.
D: Is the poop-like pattern on Klahadore's suit literally poop, or does it have some other meaning...?
O: It’s poop.
D: I got a question~♡ Why does Zoro always wear an uncle-like haramaki? Please tell me.
O: How rude!! You there, sit down there for a moment!!! Now listen up! Remember well that the haramaki is Japan's pride as the strongest warm clothing and a nice fit fashion piece for fighters!!! Reflect on that! You can go home!
D: I'll make it simple! Who is "Mikio Itoo"? I want to know. I found his images in Volume 1, pages 14 (frame 3, behind the Vice-Captain), 16 (frame 1, on the bottle) and 86 (frame 2, behind Luffy), and Volume 2, page 3 (in the corner, next to Zoro!). I keep finding the name! Are we supposed to guess who it is? Please tell me the answer. Who is he?
O: You guys found them? All of them? There really is someone with the name "Mikio Itoo".  He's in "Butsu Zone"(now in Jump Magazine's "Shaman King", it's a "Sandan Takei" (aka Takei Hiroyuki) manga), and in "Ruroken" (Rurouni Kenshin) he also appeared as a traveler. All the "Mikio Itoo" in all 3 mangas are indeed the same person. If you ask me who he is, all I can say is that he fought many battles along with his friend throughout the desert, and his sharp shooting saved him and his friend many times. Soon in the future, he'll make an appearance in front of everyone.
D: Ei-chan, please give us your vital statistics! (Is that your real name?)
O: It’s my real name. So, um... I was born on January 1, 1975. I'm a Capricorn, blood type A, year of the rabbit, and I like movies. I'm trying to do my best.
D: This is a question for Oda-sensei. When did you decide to be a manga artist? And what kinds of things did you do to become a manga artist? Please tell me.
O: First of all, I decided to become a manga artist when I was four years old. The instant I learned that such a job existed in this world, I thought, "I don't have to work when I grow up!" and made the decision. But it was in about 8th grade that I started drawing seriously. What kinds of things? Doodles and such. Even now, I doodle in my sketch pad as I think of stories.
D: This is a hardcore fan question, but in Masaya Tokuhiro's Watery Friend: Kappaman Volume 1, Page 93, Panel 4, why is "Eiichiro Oda" written there? Were you working on it as an assistant or something?
O: Whoa, scary! You noticed. Yes, I was an assistant. My history as an assistant manga artist includes work on Shinobu Kaitani-sensei's Midoriyama Police Gang, Masaya Tokuhiro-sensei's Jungle King Tar-chan and Kappaman, and Nobuhiro Watsuki-sensei's Rurouni Kenshin. I learned many things from those three. Seriously, I respect them all as manga artists and as people.
D: How many "Devil Fruit" are there? And, what kind of fruit are they?
O: If you want to know what they are, please just continue reading my manga. How many are there? From the rumors I've heard, there are over 100. And many people with the special abilities are at "that place".
D: I have an inquiry, Sensei. Doesn't the first mate on Shanks' ship have a name? And also the meat guy.
O: Take your seat. Of course he has a name. At first he was "Shofukutei Nezumi", because his face kind of looks like a mouse. That's what Usopp said. He was lying. His real name is "Benn Beckman". And the meat-eating fat guy's name is "Lucky Roux". There's really no need to remember something like that, but since I got asked enough, I might as well clear it up.
D: I have a question. I always see the sound effect "donnnn" (ta-dah!) in One Piece, but why "donnnn"? I think "babinnnn" would work just as well.
O: No. No good. No good at all. I use "donnnn" when I draw scenes to give them that "donnnn" kind of feeling, so if I drew in "babinnnn" it would give the picture a "babinnnn" feeling. But, maybe in a gag scene or something. Like "ufunnnn" (giggle).
That's different.
D: Nice to meet you, Oda-sensei! I love the manga you draw, "Nep Ece"
O: RRRRRRGH! DAMN!! ...I love it when boys and girls misread and omit the letters like that. Makes me wonder if anyone can read those weird letters. I'm sorry for making the "O" and "I" in the title logo pictures and not simple letters. It's correctly spelled "One Piece". Remember that if you have the time.
D: What does the "Möwe" written on Morgan's chin mean?
O: It’s a German word. It means "seagull". The pronunciation is kind of like "Mehve". He really is a sailor, isn't he?
D: You know, with Zoro's Three Sword Style, I don't think he'd be able to talk with the sword in his mouth... Could it be... ventriloquism?
O: IT’S HIS HEART SPEAKING.
D: You don't seem to use much tone. Is there a reason?
O: Well, it takes forever to start affixing the tone. It takes a lot of time (and it's a pain in the--) ... My policy is, if you can only do partial tone, it's better just to make it black and white. That's my policy.
D: Oda-sensei! One... Two... Jango!!!
O: ZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ... Ah!! Good morning!!
D: A while ago, a kid from around here asked me, "Where can I go to meet Luffy?". Where can I go to meet Luffy? The North Sea? The Mediterranean Sea? The Tone River? Lake Biwa?
O: Hmmmm... It's hard to say where to go in order to meet him. I suppose if you just set off on a relaxing voyage you might find him. But Buggy and the others are out there too, so please be careful. Please.
D: Ummmm, about "1, 2, Jango'"': what's that striped thing on his chin?
O: A mushroom. Before he ever became a pirate, he was a "wandering dancer". But business wasn't so good, so all he did was sleep. Without even taking a bath. And eventually a striped mushroom grew from his chin. Since he was so hungry, he tried eating the cap of the mushroom, but it was disgusting! But he gulped it down anyways, and somehow became able to hypnotize people. Therefore, the striped thing on his chin is a "leftover mushroom".
D: Hold on a minute, is Gaimon-san my father? (I checked with the Ministry of Education)
O: Ahh! Damn, you found out... You checked with the Ministry of Education... So that's how you found out... Gaimon-san was told to keep his mouth shut about this, but... Looks like we can't hide it anymore. Very well! Go see him! That's right, you are Gaimon-san's son! Go and jump into Gaimon-san's heart! Jump with all your strength! And while you're at it, go jump in the sea and cool your head off! You bastard!
D: When I told my friend "Buggy is sooooo cute ♥", she took a step back and called me a "weirdo"! Am I weird?
O: You’re weird!! ... But I like Buggy too. And I'm not weird, am I? ...I'm special. I'm a special exception.
D: When an artist is drawing Chapter 10, for example, what chapter is being printed in the newest Weekly Jump?
O: I see. I wondered about this myself, years ago. So, I understand your curiosity. At this EXACT moment, Issue 46 of Jump is hitting the stands. It contains One Piece Chapter 60, "Solution". But I have finished the drafts up through Chapter 63, "I Ain't Gonna Die". So, a chapter comes out roughly 3 weeks after I finish it. But that's only my CURRENT schedule. The people doing these weekly serials aren't actually all the same. I could change if need be. There are various cases.
D: What happened to the key Chouchou swallowed in Volume 2?
O: It came out. Shiny and brown.
D: When I was reading the Volume 4's SBS, you said that Luffy's arm could stretch about 72 Gomu Gomus, but I was wondering, just how many meters is 1 "Gomu Gomu"? (I checked with the Ministry of Education)
O: Oh, you again! Gaimon-san's son. And you looked at the Ministry of Education again... Meters, well...You can't put it those terms, you see? 1 "Gomu Gomu" is about 10 "Fairy Tale Gomu Gomus". 1 "Fairy Tale Gomu Gomu" is about 10 "Funky Gomu Gomus", so Luffy's arm can stretch about 7200 "Funky Gomu Gomus". Got it?
D: Where are you from, Sensei? It wasn't in your Volume 4 profile.
O: From Kumamoto. From Kyushu. From a wonderful place.
D: Why don't Luffy and Zoro go by the names "Monkey" or "Roronoa"? Or are those their family names, the Japanese way?
O: Yes. That's it. First family name. Then personal name.
D: Is there a mirror on Alvida's ship?
O: Whoa! Hey, hey... She's gonna throw that club at me! Don't ask me! Man, what a dangerous question. Something tells me there is no mirror. DONK!!! Whoa, she threw something!!
D: When you read One Piece, some mysterious characters show up from time to time. Like, in One Piece Volume 5, p. 182, in the third panel, there's an odd guy in the back. Who is he? I'm so interested, I'm not brushing my teeth.
O: No, brush your teeth. Dentists are scary. So... you found him. He is a wrestler named "Pandaman". I will introduce him to you sometime later.
D: I know there's the Gomu Gomu no Mi, the bara Bara no Mi, and all those other devil fruit, but let me tell you the one I thought up. It's called the Gero Gero no Mi(Barf Barf Fruit). The power makes it so you're always vomiting, so no one ever comes near you. Verrrrrrrry useful.
O: You eat it.
D: Were there really woman pirates?
O: Yes, there were. But it was considered bad luck to bring a woman on board a ship in those days, and so many of them disguised themselves as men. There were two woman pirates, Mary Read and Anne Bonny, who were said to have fought more bravely than any man. By the way, my character Alvida was based on a female pirate named Awilda (or Alvida) who formed a pirate crew comprised entirely of women.
D: In an older manga called "Oni ga Kitarite" (by Shingagin-sensei) the second panel on p. 16 of the first volume could only have been drawn by you, Oda-sensei. Were you an assistant there?
O: I can't endure any more of these letters, so I'll go ahead and clear up this matter all at once. Hiroyuki Takei, Shinga Gin, Mikio Ito and I were all assistants for "Rurouni Kenshin". So, when my friend "Gagin" got his own series, I gave him a bit of help. Also worth mentioning is Shinya Suzuki, who just had his debut published, and was an assistant for Rurouni Kenshin, as well as an occasional helper with One Piece. And that's the connection between all of us. OK?
D: When I went to the barber a little while ago and asked for a "Zoro haircut", he shaved my head. What should I say to get a haircut like Zoro's?
O: Ask for the cut of a "MAN'S HEART AND SPIRIT."
D: In Chapter 37, is the man who captured the fake "Kuro of a Hundred Plans", the Marine Captain "Axe-Arm Morgan"? When I asked my friend, he thought they looked the same too.
O: He’s Morgan. He was a Chief Petty Officer at the time, and then got promoted to Lieutenant Commander. From there he strong-armed his way up to a Captain, and was put in charge of a Marine base. When Kuro looked in his eyes, he must have sensed some sort of kindred spirit between them.
D: To Master Ei. What time is it now~?
O: Uhhhh... Right now it's... 12:09am! Let's start the SBS Corner!!
D: Does Shanks like me?
O: I don't care!
D: Oda-sensei! A little while ago, my friend came up and said, "I've found the perfect Devil Fruit for you", so I went ahead and ate it. Now it may just be my mind playing tricks on me, but I get the feeling that all the jokes I say aren't very funny.
O: Ohhhhhh... That one, huh? All right, I'll lay it on you straight. You have eaten the "Samu Samu no Mi". If you eat that fruit, nothing but bad jokes come out of your mouth. And to make matters worse, you can't swim. You really got the raw end of the deal there, my friend. Ha ha ha ha. Laugh it up, laugh it up. Ha ha ha. (Note: Samu(i) means 'cold', and is often used when someone says a bad joke. Kind of the same as when a comic says "tough audience".)
D: In the first volume, when the bandits enter the bar they destroy the door, so why is it that when they leave, it's repaired?!
O: That was the work of the carpenter "Minatomo-san". He has a short temper, so he cannot pass by a broken door or what-have-you without repairing it. I assure you, this wasn't my mistake.
D: Why does Sanji-san's eyebrow curl up at the end? Is it for fashion? Make it clear!!
O: Hey!! You there, sit down!! Now listen!! Everyone lives in circles!! The Sun, the Moon, and the Earth all spin in circles!! And!! If the Earth suddenly stopped spinning!! The planet would be covered in tidal waves!! It would be terrible!! Now remember that Sanji's eyebrow channels that same powerful circular energy!! Reflect upon this!! You may go!!
D: A question. How old is Sanji-san?
O:19 years old. The same as Zoro.
D: Nami, Nami Nami, Nami, I love Nami. I won't give her over to that Sanji guy!! Therefore, I propose a duel, for Nami. Tomorrow, at 3pm, on the Red Line. Be there! Oda-sensei, is this okay?
O: OK!! Fight!!
D: How many assistants do you have? What do they do?
O: There are four. They help me with the backgrounds and so forth. They stay at my house and help me for 3 days and 2 nights a week, but to tell you the truth, I wouldn't be able to finish a chapter without them. However, it's such a silly place with all of us together that doing the work is very fun.
D: I have a question. How quickly can Captain Kuro run 100 meters?
O: To tell you the truth, it is extremely hard to measure his speed correctly, but I don't think it would take more than 5 seconds. Think of it as 4 point something. Whoa! That's a world record.
D: Are Patty and Carne's names from "spaghetti" and "calzone”? (Note: Calzone spelled in Japanese Is Carutsōne(カルツォーネ), and Carne is spelled Carune (カルネ))
O: Hmmm! It is true that their names are derived from food-related words, but that's not right. Patty is taken from the name of a type of dessert chef (patisserie). And Carne is taken directly from the Spanish word for meat.
D: If Luffy is 7,200 Funky Gomu Gomus, does that mean Sanji is about 8,500 Funky Ero Eros?
O: Oh, no, not at all. He can get at least 930 Fairy Tale Ero Eros.
D: Could you make the One Piece tankōbon a little cheaper? (like 100 yen...)
O: Right now... 1 book is 410 yen. And Jump costs 220 yen... When I was in elementary school, a tankōbon was 360 yen and a Jump cost 170 yen. But the price of everything rises. There's nothing I can do about it. It's the same for everyone. And 100 yen is just never gonna happen.
D: Sensei! When you are drawing the characters of One Piece, and Luffy is mad, for example, do you get a mad expression on your face, or look really strained?? Tell me!! I do it.
O: Oh, I sure do. I make lots of faces when I draw. When I drew the double page spread of the break-up of the Usopp Pirate Crew, my face got really tired. I cried so much when I drew that, I thought my face was going to cramp up.
D: To Odacchi: I am your betrothed. When are we going to be married? Should it be November 1? We're going to kiss in the marriage ceremony, right?! I'm sooooo nervous *kiss*! Actually, I'm Namie Amuro's little sister.
O: Okay... to the hospital.
D: I wanna say something to the guy who said Zoro's stomach band was for "old fogies" in the SBS on p. 130 of Volume 4!! You, yes, you!! First, I too wondered, why does "Cool Guy Zoro" have a stomach band? But then, once I realized that it's a part of Zoro, it became okay! I, yes I shall allow it! So you should too! Now we're friends!
O: Oh! A friendship between readers has bloomed... Wonderful.
D: Only the upper half of Buggy's body can fly around (or float, or whatever), right? So he should be able to send only his top half to the Grand Line through the air. Why doesn't he do that?
O: He cannot. A Bara Bara man has a certain distance limit to his ability. There is a 200 Bara Bara diameter circle around the point where the person touches the ground. Outside of that distance, he cannot control those parts of his body.
D: Did you know that Koby's father is the world champion of jump-rope?
O: No... I didn't know that. Koby's dad sure is amazing...
D: Is it true that Klahadore's pet is a mammoth?
O: No... I didn't know that either. I supposed he was keeping it around that mansion...?
D: What criteria do you use to pick your "Usopp Gallery Pirates"?
O: Well, the drawing skill, how fun it is, the artistic sense... But of course, the most valuable thing for any postcard is SPIRIT.
D: Salutations. I am an earthlien* who lives in the same house that Usopp's father Yassop's friend's brother's girlfriend lived in a long time ago. *An earthlien is half-earthling, half alien.
O: Wowwwww. Let the SBS begin!! (Donnn)
D: The hourglasses on both sides of Don Krieg's skull and bones are supposed to indicate a threat to the enemy, but were hourglasses really used for that meaning? At that period in time?
O: There really were pirate flags with hourglasses on them. It basically indicated the time left until the death of their prey, so it holds a meaning like, "It's only a matter of time until your surrender".
D: Oda-sensei. Since Luffy is a Gomu Human, does that mean his "penis" can stretch, too?
O: His penis can stretch too.
D: I have a question. How many g/cm3 is Sanji's kick power? I would like you to give me an answer to two decimals, please.
O: To tell you the truth, it's impossible to measure. There are games at the arcade that measure your kick power? Well, if Sanji used one of those, he would destroy not only the game, but the wall of the entire building. But if you tried to put it into a form of measurement, I would say 21 bats. The power to destroy 21 wooden baseball bats in one kick.
D: Yo!! Ei-chan!! Are you still working on One Piece? Keep drawing, man!! Okay, Ei-chan, here's my question. Who are the "One Piece" characters with the highest and lowest IQ's?! Okay, that's enough for today.
O: I’ll tell you. But when I say "in One Piece". I really mean, "of all the characters introduced so far in One Piece". And having cleared that up, the character with the highest IQ is Shanks' first mate, Benn Beckman. He is a great crewmate, who supports Shanks with his astonishing wisdom and strength. And right after him would probably be Captain Kuro, then Nami, etc. Now as for the lowest IQ... I can't decide the worst one. They're all idiots.
D: Oda-sensei, is your house really made of cardboard? (I heard from a friend.)
O: Yes. Whether it's rainy or sunny or snowy, I always draw my manga. But don't worry. The certificate ink I use is waterproof!! (Caution: good children should not believe me!)
D: What is that cape-like thing that Buchi of the Nyaban Brothers has? Is it a futon?
O: Actually, it's a "kotatsu-buton". He's a cat, after all. (A kotatsu-buton is the futon that covers a kotatsu, which is a table with a heater underneath. The cover keeps the heat underneath, and cats are said to love hiding under the kotatsu where it's warm).
D: Is Luffy's pose on the cover of Volume 3 from Ken Shimura-san's "Aiiin"?
O: Oh my god, you're right!! It's Aiiin!! It really is. Yes, it is Aiiin. ("Aiiin" is a well-known gag from veteran comedian Shimura Ken. Ken's recent famous characters are Baka Tono (Stupid Lord) and Henna Ojisan. Baka Tono's signature pose is "Aiiiiiiin!" The sub-unit of Morning Musume, Mini Moni even did an entire song on it called "Ai~n! Dance Song")
D: Does Sanji-san like to say shit?
O: He loves to say shit.
D: In Volume 5, pg. 159 (3rd panel), did that fat guy in the lower left corner manage to steal her food?
O: Well, spotted!! Amazing!! That would be Mr. Motzel, the gourmet, yes? He ate her food. Then they fought afterwards. The girl beside him is Mr. Motzel's daughter.
D: If I want to be a girl as cool and courageous as Zoro, how should I start?
O: A girl, eh? Hmmm. First, you squat!! Then, in order to become courageous, eat some sardines!!
D: Is Luffy made of natural rubber? Or artificial rubber? -A Meteorological Agency Investigation- (Ministry of Education rip off)
O: He's naturally stupid rubber.
D: When we were talking about One Piece, I said I like Shanks, my friend S. likes Zoro, and I. likes Luffy, but R. likes Buggy and Jango. Should they go see a doctor?
O: Choosing those two is certainly a serious illness... But you should just tell them to rest at home and take it easy. And then tell them to get... stronger... and that life is worth living, and... stuff...
D: In "Monkey D. Luffy", what does the D stand for?! Is it "donburi" (a bowl)? Or maybe "daibutsu" (giant Buddha statue)? Or maybe...!! I'm really curious. Please tell me.
O: I’ve gotten a ridiculous number of these letters... So many. But I cannot answer that question. I can't answer it... yet. Please just read it as "D" and don't think too deeply into it, for now.
D: What is the connection between pirates and rum? Why is that every book mentions pirates and rum together in the same sentence?
O: It’s not just pirates and rum, but sailors and rum. In short, rum is cheap. Because of that, back in the sailing days of England, the liquor they supplied the navy with changed from brandy to rum, and the hard-drinking men of the sea became associated with rum. As for why they would take so much liquor, it was because the water would go bad on longer voyages.
D: Last night, I met a guy from the Planet Gomu Gomu. When I asked him, "How far can you stretch your arm?" he said "705 Poison Gomu Gomus." How much is 705 Poison Gomu Gomus?
O: You met someone from the Gomu Gomu Planet?! Wow!! That's great!! A "Poison Gomu Gomu" is 10 times as much as a "Gomu Gomu". So in other words, 7,050 Gomu Gomus!! That's an astronomical length!! But be careful. Gomu Gomuns are notorious for giving the most ridiculous answers in the universe.
D: Sensei, I can't stop my "okay hair". How do I stop it?
O:There's no need to!!  The SBS begins!!
D: To Oda-Sensei, I always(x2) have fun reading One Piece! By the way, in Volume 7 p. 18, third panel, the knife Sanji's holding appears to have some writing on it, but it's so small, I can't tell what it is. What's written on it? Please tell me!!
O: I’m not surprised you can't tell what it is. I drew it so you couldn't tell. However, you did well to find it. I'll fess up. It says "Hokuto no Ken" (Fist of the North Star). It was a really famous series in Jump from when I was in elementary school. Do you know it?
D: I decided, I wanna participate in the SBS Corner, too!! And this is what came out, so listen up. Do you like crap, Oda-sensei? The word pops up a lot, and it's drawn on Klahadore's clothes, so I figured... Personally, I love it.
O: Crap?! I'd be too embarrassed to say such a naughty, filthy word!! Please, stop it!!
D: When I read about Usopp's past, told in Merry's refined speech, I accidentally started "man-crying", even though I'm a girl. The tears ran down my cheeks and into my mouth. What do you think it tasted like?
O: Like crap. (Rolling style)
D: Oda-sensei, this is the "Spirit of the Heart" (What Zoro uses to speak with the sword in his mouth), isn't it? (Pen Name Arunya)
O: Yes. This is a good "Spirit of the Heart".
D: I went to the barber and told him "A Spirit-of-the-Man's-Heart cut!!" Then he said, "Okay!!" and he shaved my head bald. Entirely the wrong look. Sensei, are there any requirements to become a Zoro? Tell me!! *Sob sob*.
O: Don’t cry!! Stand up!! There are some battles in which a man cannot run from!! So what if you got shaved bald once?! When your hair grows out again, go back to that barber and challenge him!! A return match!! Well, if I were you, I wouldn't (Wild Laughter).
D: I LOVE SANJI LIKE THAT.
O: Like what?
D: Oda-sensei, it's awful!! My friend has contracted "If-You-Don't-Eat-A-Snack-You-Will-Die" illness! How can this terrible, terrible affliction be cured?! He'll die soon!!
O: Don’t get flustered!! Get a hold of yourself!! It's okay!! Chill out!! Calm down!! Okay, next question.
D: How many Debu Debus is Alvida's Debu-sa (Fatness)? *WHIRLLLLL* CRACK! AAAAAH!
O: Ahh, do whatever you want already.
D: What are the pistols in One Piece called? They don't look like matchlocks..
O: They are "flintlock pistols". The flint is a spark-making stone, so you can think of it as one step better than the fuse of a matchlock.
D: OI!! Oda-kun!! Sit down right there!! Now listen up!! I don't want to hear any junk about you wanting to look at the side of your face!! What are you gonna do if you break your neck?! Value your life, sonny!! You shouldn't have to be scolded by some younger guy like myself!! Think on this!! You may go!!
O: Sigh... I'm very sorry.
D: When I tried to look at the side of my face in a mirror like you said on the inside cover of Volume 7, I twisted my neck and had to go to the doctor. The doctor asked me, "How did this happen to you?" What should I have told him?
O: Hey... A kindred spirit.
D: Hello. I have wine in my house, so I wondered, "What country is it from?" And when I looked on the back, I saw the words "dry, full body". It was a bit of surprise. But I was rather pleased. Is this the origin of Fullbody-san's (The Ironfist) name? It is, isn't it? If it isn't, I think my life might be over.
O: It’s not over! You are right! I really don't drink much wine, so I don't know a whole lot about it, but I learned that the strength of and heaviness of the taste is called "body"! Heavy wine a long fermentation time has a "full body", and as it gets lighter it goes to "medium body", and then "light body"! Thus, my explanation of Lieutenant Fullbody's name is complete! Thank you very much!!
D: Where did Dandy Gin-san hide those weapons of his? Huh? There?! Well great, this thought is going to keep me from dozing off on the train now.
O: What?! Are you suggesting that he hid those weapons as his balls?! As Dandy Gin's golden balls?! You're going to make all the Gin fans very angry. Gin's a popular one, he is. (“Golden balls" and "Testicles" are pronounced the same ("Kintama") in the Japanese language)
D: HEYYYYYY!! Guy who said he likes Namiiiiiiii!! Fight with me!! I love Nami 100x more than youuuuuuu. But I love you toooooooo. Am I a homooooooooo (angry)? No, we're frieeeeeends. You and I are frieeeeeeeends.
O: That’s right. The guy who kept saying Nami Nami Nami in Volume 7. Get along, now!
D: In an SBS in Volume 7, you said Sanji-san's age was 19, but after discussing with my friend, we arrived at the conclusion that this was a lie. How old is he, really?
O: Uh, it's not quite up to you to decide that. All you can do is take my word for it... It's true.
D: Why did "Red Leg Zeff" eat his right leg? That's where his kick power lies, so couldn't he eat the left one instead?
O: BZZZZT. Wrong. The base of your kick strength is actually the "pivoting leg". For instance, if you were to try to kick a ball with your right leg, what would happen if you didn't have a left leg? You couldn't kick it, right? Why don't you go ask your soccer-playing friends? The life of the kick is contained in the leg that supports your weight!!
D: Oda-sensei! Drop your pen! Stop drawing manga! I have a question. My older brother and I work together to buy the SBS, but we accidentally bought two copies of Volume 5. What should we do? If you answer me, you may use your pen!
O: Well, then... How about, "go buy five more copies of Volume 5"? Then the fact that you bought two before won't really matter anymore, and you can laugh about it! Can I pick up the pen now?
D: If Luffy wants a musician so bad, why doesn't he come to my house? Is it because I don't live by the ocean? Is it because I'm actually an alien? Is it because my feet have been smelly lately?
O: It’s because your feet smell. The SBS is over!! Until next Volume!!
D: I am "Timmy Ueda", from the SBS Hijacking Group! I will start the SBS Corner before Oda-sensei can!! "Uhhh, start the SBS!!"
O: Gah! Damn. He started it first! Damn you, Timmy, damn you! How am I going to start the SBS now? Oh, wait, it just started.
D: Hello, Oda-sensei. You know, in Volume 8, page 92, the sixth panel, you wrote "Search for Pandaman"? Well, I can't find him. Where is he? Please show me.
O: Aha. I got a whole bunch of postcards from people about this one. A bunch from people who found him, and a bunch from people who didn't find him. And I thought the words were so small that no one would notice to begin with! Well, I'll show you the answer. In the bottom circle is written the phrase, "Search for Pandaman!!!" And in the upper-right circle is the man' himself...
D: When the Arlon guys and the other Fish-Men give birth, do they lay eggs like fish?
O: BZZZT. Fish-Men are still mammals, so they give birth the way humans do. There are fish women too, of course.
D: What is the thing that Usopp and a lot of the pirates in One Piece have tied around their waists? A towel? Or did they want one of Zoro's stomach bands, but they couldn't get one for themselves, so they used those instead?
O: These things? They do all have them, don't they? There's no real deep reason for them, though. I guess pirates just liked to wear these "decorative sashes". But sometimes they put their pistols in them, so maybe they aren't totally pointless.
D: Yo! 'Sup. One Piece is always a hurricane of emotion. This is the first time I ever wrote to a manga artist. Oda-sensei is my favorite character.
O: I Ain’t no character.
D: A little while ago, my friend asked me to draw Shanks, so I did. Then he hit me on the head all of a sudden, and said, "Why'd you draw Jango?!" Is this a disease?
O: Yes. It is a disease. "Drawing Jango Sickness", I believe. You're always going to draw Jango. Be careful, as the final symptom of this disease is when you draw Jango rather than signing your name for a home delivery.
D: On page 121 in Volume 8, that thing that rises above Zeff's head is a hat, right? My mother says, "It's too tall to be a hat. There must be a pole behind him or something." Sensei, please make this blockhead (age 44) agree with me.
O: Okay, mom, listen to me now. In this world, there are certain unyielding truths that you cannot avert your eyes from. The thing that is standing on Zeff's head is the "Tower of Faith", supported by the spirit of the heart. It's called the "Cook's Slice of Heaven Hat". That's right!!!
D: Sensei! I thought of a new move for Luffy-chan. It goes like this... Luffy stretches his mouth and eats the enemy, then he goes to the bathroom and poops it out! How's that? It's good, right? A good idea.
O: No, it's not.
D: I have a question for Oda-sensei. What do you call Bell-mère-san's haircut?
O: That hairstyle is called "Women have Guts". You should yell it out in a beauty parlor.
D: I'm glad Sanji is "girl-crazy", not "boy-crazy".
O: Uh, totally.
D: When Sanji thinks about a girl, the smoke from his cigarette turns into a heart shape. How does he do it? I want to try too!! Please (x100) tell me!
O: Uh, first of all, you have to be over 20 years old. Then light your cigarette and take a big drag. When you do that, the smoke will come in contact with the "Feeling of Love" you put in your lungs beforehand, and then when you blow the smoke out, it will most surely come out in the shape of a heart.
D: I can't really tell if Yosaku and Johnny are strong or not. It's definitely by a hair. To be totally straight, between those two and Helmeppo, who can stretch further?
O: I hope that Kaya will become a wonderful Doctor.
D: When I read your manga, Sensei, I get the feeling that I should do what I want. So I've gotten the urge to pursue my dream to build a gigantic bridge in America.
O: That's nice. A boy with a dream. I like that. Well, you know what? If anyone tries to stop you, I'll, like... put on a pair of leather boots... and kick their little toes or something. So don't worry. Try hard.
D: BAM! BAM! Click. Helloooo? Oda-sensei...? Oh damn, he's not home!!
O: That was terrible.
D: What does it mean when the cook Patty says, "Excuse me, your Hickness"?
O: You know the saying, "Please excuse me, sir"? Well, he seems to be using "Hickness" in the place of "Sir". For example, you would use it like this. "Oh my, you were in the hospital for a year? That must have been dreadful, your Hickness". "This man has accomplished many great deeds. A round of applause for his Hickness". And so on...
D: I have a question. Does Usopp have bones in his nose? Because I've seen it bent many times now...
O: Well, I've never seen that. How could his nose possibly bend? What a ridiculous thing to... WHOA!! IT DOES BEND!!! THE SBS IS OVER!!
D: Timmy Ueda-sama of the SBS Hijacking Group, I beg of you! Please accept me, Martha Shimoda, as your follower. I'll do anything you want. So, to begin with... "Start the SBS!!" Yaaay. How was it Timmy-sama? I started it.
O: GYAAAAAHHH!! IT HAPPENED AGAAAAAIN!! DAMN YOU, TIMMYYYY!! Damn you, Timmy's apprentice!! Shit on a stick!!
D: Hello, Mr. Oda-sensei. I am continuing my efforts to be a swordsman. Do you if I keep working as a swordsman, that someday I might be as strong as Sanji-san?
O: Crappity crap!! Goddamn Timmy!! Are you one of Timmy's followers, too?! Is that right?! Wait, you are not?! Oh...!! Sorry, sorry. Sorry for flying off the handle like that. Uhhh... Become like Sanji by being a swordsman...? Yeah, right!! What does that have to do with anything?! Crap!! I'm getting all out of whack this time around... Be cool, be cool.
D: A question for sensei. Why do Zoro and Sanji and Nami drink alcohol, when they're still minors? Is that allowed?
O: No.
D: Oda-chaaaan. I've always wanted to ask; at the end of the book, it says making unauthorized copies is a copyright violation. But is it okay to make copies of the timetable and stuff? Please tell me. From the third of Koby's happy friends.
O: It's complicated to explain, but basically, permission has been granted in several places for that illustration, so it's all right. Also, a lot of people wrote to say, "My school goes for eight periods", but I'm sure you can manage a workaround on that one. Sorry. It's hard to study for so long!
D: Here's a question. When do fan letters reach you, Oda-sensei? Every week? For instance, if I mailed one on November 1, when does it fall into your hands? Please let me know.
O: First of all, the letters everyone sends me are delivered to the "Weekly Shounen Jump Editorial Department". There, people working part-time separate the letters according to author, and my manager sends me my letters once a week. So if you're lucky, it might even be the day it arrives at the Editorial Department. It's almost always within a week or two, though.
D: You said in Volume 7 that when you're drawing characters' facial expressions, you make the same face. Do you do the same thing when you draw one of Nami's sexy faces? Do you make an "Ooh-la-la" face?
O: Of course. I'm famous with the local public for my sexy faces. They think I might be hotter than a magazine model queen.
D: Yo! So, this is the first time we've talked, Ei-chan. (Ehehe!) I'm so EMBARRASSED! Anyway, I have a question. "Buggy the Clown" can split himself in pieces, right? Which means he can also do it DOWN THERE, if you catch my drift... I can't get any more specific! Don't make me say it! Don't draw anything until you answer this question!!
O: His penis can fly too.
D: I've been thinking about something for a while. How can Arlong wear a ring on his fingers when his hands are webbed?
O: That's because they go straight through his fingers. Like, jabbed straight through. They're more like piercings than rings.
D: How far can Buggy separate himself? I'm so interested I've been growing okay hair for three straight days.
O: Buggy? Well... Let's just say there's a cutoff point. Apparently, if he's any further away from his parts after that, he loses control. But more importantly, since you're growing okay hair, why don't you enter yourself in that "Okay Hair Contest" they were just talking about? Hmm?
D: On page 78 of Volume 9, you can see the characters for "Koi" (Love) and "Sake" (Ale). Those wouldn't be plays on "Koi" (Carp) or "Sake" (Salmon), would they? You wouldn't do that, would you, sensei? I trust you... By the way, what kind of fish-men are they?
O: W-Wow, that little gag is so old, I'd forgotten all about it. Uhhh... Next, please...
D: Hello!! This is a postcard to Oda-sensei, obviously. Oh! I forgot to introduce myself. I am "Timmy Maiko"! Does the word "Timmy" remind you of anything...? Yes... Oh Yes! "Timmy Ueda"! I'm kind of like a sister to Ueda. You might recall him from Volume 10. I sent this postcard in to thank you for including him... Hee(x2)! And as his sister of sorts, I will end this before Oda-sensei can. Why? Because I am a member of the SBS-Hijacking Group after all.
"THE SBS IS OVER!"
O: GYAAAAHH! Not again!! Damn you, Timmy, DAMN YOUUUU!!
D: Hello. I have great news for Odacchi today. I'm taking a stand to protect Odacchi from the "SBS Hijacking Group" that has been obstructing his SBS Corner!!! I call myself Team Captain Richard of the "Advancement of the Destruction of the SBS Hijacking Group Team". Now to celebrate our first day of action: Ready, set, go!! Start the SBS!
O: Great, now you started it!!
D: I've been thinking on a worthy topic for five years now. And that topic is, "Why is it that in battle manga, the bottom half of people's clothes never get ruined?!"
O: If they fought naked, wouldn't it kind of change the emphasis of the manga?
D: In regards of Tashigi-san, who appears in Volume 11- On page 119, she acts quite near-sighted, but when she's looking at the katana on page 132, she put her glasses up on purpose, and on page 161, when she runs up late, she isn't wearing them at all. Are they just for show?
O: It's not really for show; it's because she's slightly short-sighted. She can see things close up, but when they get farther away, they start to get blurry. I think. Most likely.
D: We've gotten a nomination for Oda-kun to be the voice actor for Pandaman. Anyone who disagrees, please raise your hand. By the School Grade Committee Chairman.
O: Oooh, good idea. Me, the voice actor for Pandaman? Nice. Okay, I'll go talk to the people at Toei Animation about doing that... Wait, Pandaman doesn't have any lines.
D: What are the "21 O-Wazamono" and "Wazamono" and all that stuff? Also, what does Yubashiri's "unraveled edge with a small T" mean?! Huh???? I'm totally lost.
O: Ahh, well. You don't really need to understand it, mainly it was just supposed to sound really cool and impressive. But for the curious, I'll give a little explanation about katanas here.
D: Are those glasses that Usopp wears when he fights?
O: Those are goggles. "Sniper goggles". At first he only wore them for looks, but in Loguetown he got the brand-new model from "North Blue". The scene on the right was supposed to be the first page of Chapter 98, in Volume 11. The number of pages went over the limit, so we scrapped it. The goggles have sunglasses on them to eliminate glare when aiming, and they can flip up and turn around and stuff like that, so Usopp really likes them.
D: Hello, Oda-sensei. This is confusing to me, so please answer clearly. Is the stuff that you draw on Sanji-san's chin a BEARD? Or is it just a SHADOW? If it's a beard, please make him shave it off.
O:IT IS A BEARD! I WILL NOT MAKE HIM SHAVE IT!! THE SBS IS OVER!! OVER... over... over...
D: Well, I'd like to start the SBS, but I mustn't do it on my own, so I'll go ask Oda-sensei to start it... Sensei? Sensei!! Start the Corner!! Oh!! He's sleeping?! Oh well. Guess I'll have to do it, then. And now, "Start the SBS!!"
O: ZZZZZZZZ... AHH!! Crap, I slept in. Oh, time for the SBS. Great, it started without me again!!
D: Heya, Sensei, I got a question for ya. I can't sleep at night cuz I think about it so much. Listen to me, man. WHAT DOES THE PURA IN TEMPURA STAND FOR?
O: Shut up!! Who cares what the hell Pura means?! (< Just woke up)
D: Good day, Oda-sensei. I am Kazuya, butler for Yano-sama. According to my friend K-Bayashi S-Hei (Kobayashi Shohei?, in Volume 10, on Nami's clothes on page 87 and Helmeppo's hat on page 109, it says "DOSKOI PANDA". Where does this animal come from?
O: That's a brand name. It's very popular in East Blue right now. And pretty expensive. Very high class. One shirt might cost you over 10,000 Belly. Beware of the imposter brand "DOSKO1 PANDA". DOSKOI PANDA's headquarters are located on Mirror Ball Island in East Blue.
D: Your attention, please. I would like to ask Oda-kun something about the photo on the inside of Volume 13. Isn't that the exact same picture from the inside of Volume 8 of "Shaman King"? Huh? Huh?! HUH?!! from a guy who wants to be called Mocchi.
O: Yes. I've decided not to show my face in the volume flap pictures (because if I do, it will make my everyday life much harder). That picture is Mr. Takei's, who draws the comic "Shaman King", which also runs in Weekly Shonen Jump. We made up a scheme to put the same photo in both of our books, on the occasion that we both had books out the same day. So, the one sitting cross-legged is me, and the one smoking is Mr. Takei.
D: The dress Miss Valentine wears is so cute. Is the design on that one piece an orange? I'm curious.
O: That's a lemon. Kyahahahaha. A lemon slice. Kyahahaha.
D: In Volume 13, Mr. 5's "Nose Fancy Cannon" is spelled "鼻空想砲 (Hanakūsōhō)". Doesn't that really mean (sorry, I know it's 'vulgar') "Booger (Hanakuso) Cannon (Hō)"?
O: It's a booger. Kyahahaha. I laughed my ass off when I made it up. Nose Fancy (*roll roll*) Cannon!! (flick - DOOON!!)
D: Hello, Odacchi-sama!! I am called "Sayaka"! Please answer this!! On page 79 of Volume 11, 4th panel, there's an old drunk guy! Why is he there?! Answer please, Ei-chan!
O: Well spotted. I'm so happy. Well, I'll tell you. His name is Sam. He's drunk. On his way home from his eldest daughter's wedding, swaying back and forth across the road, he accidentally came to Arlong Park. All around him, he saw people joyfully celebrating. So he got excited too and starting running with them. That's our Sam.
D: What are those "Raw Ham Melons" that appeared in Volume 11?
O: It's an Italian hors d'oeuvre with moderately salted, thinly sliced raw ham and sweet melon, which combines in a miraculous harmony. They can come in many appearances, but as long as it's raw ham on top of melon, it's a "Raw Ham Melon".
D: Where do you learn Fish-Man Karate? Please tell me.
O: At "Fish-Man Island". It's about halfway down the Grand Line. It'll probably come around at some point, so just take it easy and wait.
D: Please continue the SBS.
O:...Okay. Yep. Wayyy ahead of ya..
D: Sensei!! Hey-ey-o!! I love Usopp! Hey, Eiichiro!!! Look over here!!! USOOOOOOPP RUBBER BAND!!!
O:........
D: Hello, Oda-sensei. I just noticed something odd in the Usopp Gallery Pirates. Let's say I buy the new Volume 13. So how is it that some people have already drawn the new characters? Is it ESP? How do they know? Goodbye.
O: BAH!! Whoa, that scared me. I thought I was gonna get hit by a rubber band!! Huh? Oh, the new characters. Well, you see, those people read "Jump". I've been reading it ever since I was a kid, too. Even now. It's a magazine. Pretty good one, too!
D: So yesterday, I'm sitting watching television, and this fellow cosplaying as an Egyptian pharaoh (like Tutankhamen) had a striped mushroom thing on his CHIN, just like Jango. So my question is, what's the relationship between ancient Egypt and Jango?
O: I can't deny that there actually is a relationship. Jango is the captain of the Black Cat Pirates. All the crew members wear cat ears on their heads, but he has a striped-mushroom chin. Why is that? Well, look at all the cats we have in Japan. If you go back far enough, they all came from Egypt. So I gave him a sort of Egyptian style. But that's all, so I guess it doesn't really matter very much.
D: Hello, you squid-bastard. Excuse me, your Hickness. Hey Timmy Ueda, I know you're watching! Let's fight!! Shiritori! MIKAN... AW, CRAP! THE SBS IS OVER.
O: Hey, wait a minute. What does the Pura in Tempura mean? And what about the Tem? Tempura... What the heck does that mean?
D: Hello, everyone! Today, Miss Valentine-san will start the SBS in place of Oda-sensei!! Take it away, Miss Valentine!! Miss V: KYAHAHAHAHA! START THE SBS! ♡
O:Uh...
D: Ei-chan! I can tell you the secret of "Tempura". It's Portuguese. There's absolutely no meaning to it. The Japanese in olden days simply wrote things down the way they heard the Portuguese say it. They just substituted the characters. If there's anything else you don't understand, don't hesitate to ask! From Knowledgeable Himeko in Yamaguchi
O: Wow. Knowledgeable Himeko knows a lot!! Okay, then I have a question for you, Knowledgeable Himeko. Why is it that in page 51 of Volume 1, in an extremely important scene, that the three lines on Shanks' pirate flag were forg... not there? Was it too much of a pain to... is there a deep reason why it wasn't redrawn despite all the readers pointing it out? I got it!! It's a message to all the boys and girls saying to go out on a voyage to heal those three scars!! Right?! No, I'm sorry. I forgot... Okay, everyone!! Get out your pens, it's retouching time! I know I make millions of errors, but this is one that I really can't let slide.
D: I have a question. On Volume 12, page 31, what is that "sailing ceremony" they do? Pen Name: Vivi Fanclub No. 17
O: What they did was use their heels to crack open a barrel of beer to celebrate their entrance into the Grand Line. You could call it a "One Piece-Style Sailing Ceremony". I wanted to draw some more about it, but I really wanted to call the 100th chapter" The Legend has Begun", so I was in a hurry to make ends meet. Pretty cool, huh? Now, about a real "sailing ceremony": In other words, the "sailing ceremony" is the biggest and most exciting celebration of the birth of a ship. To celebrate, you break a bottle of liquor on the bow of the ship, and if the bottle doesn't break, the ship is cursed with bad luck. It's a time of celebration, but the person who actually does the breaking has to take it seriously. I've even heard that in Viking "sailing ceremonies" they spilled blood on the ship from a live sacrifice. Yikes!
D: Good day, Oda-sensei, nice to meet you. And now, without further ado, my question. As it happens, around my school, there's a rumor that says you're a dog... Not only that, a poodle!! Is that true?
O: Bowwow. Bowwowwow. Bowwowwowwowwow. (I am clearly not a dog). Bow Wow. (Okay, next).
D: Where do they sell a man's Heart and Spirit? I have a secondhand woman's Heart and Spirit, by the way.
O: You do?!
D: DO YOU THINK THERE REALLY ARE SUCH THINGS AS KAPPAS?
O: YES, THERE ARE. LOTS AND LOTS OF THEM. ABSOLUTELY.
D: Would you like an elephant nose radish? (I caught one myself!) By Chojin Canadian-man.
O: Mmm, looks good. Thank you. Chomp Chomp Gobble Gobble... Urg! Urg... UHAAGH!! ...Chomp Chomp Gobble Gobble.
D: How are you, Oda-chan? Anyways, in middle school I was given a form for planning my future course in life, but when I asked the teacher, "Can I write 'pirate' as my number two wish?" he said "Be serious". I am serious! By Saori.
O: Of course you are. How can anyone write that without putting their heart into it? Tell your teacher this, from me!! "What's wrong with being a pillager?!"
D: When I watched the One Piece anime, at the part that corresponds to Volume 7, Chapter 57(Because of Dreams), it says the reason Zeff lost his leg was because it got torn off in the shipwreck. Was that changed because of the young children watching the show?
O: Yes. The concept of eating your own leg in that part of the story would be too much of a shock for young children. When you consider that a medium such as television has tens of millions of viewers, it would be a terrible mistake to fail to adapt to guidelines. It's amazing that all those animators can continue to create such wonderful shows while still having to consider these issues all the time!! If you can feel their love when you watch the show, please send fan letters to Toei Animation. It'll cheer everyone up there.
D: When reading the SBS in One Piece Volume 13, a shock like lightning ran through my body. The reason why is because I though SBS stood for S(uggoi) B (aka mitai na) S(pace) ("Very Stupid Space"). About five of my friends told me that's what it meant. What should I do...?
O: Well, to tell you the truth, 90% of the questions that come in to SBS are stupi... <ridiculo... jokes anyways, so what the heck. I don't mind.
D: I just wanna say this to Mr. 8! You're a disgrace to the saxophone! What's with that posture?! Your embouchure is pathetic! And at least wear a strap! Think about what I said! Now go!! (by the head of the Brass Club).
O: Yeah, yeah! Tell him. You're pathetic! His em... embousho... chure thing!! And his stri... strap. He really is a disgrace to the saxophone!! You tell him, right to his face!!
D: Oda-senseeei, I looooooove you. Oda-senseeeeeeeei, marry meeeeeee and if not answer my questioooon okay first of all, Gold Roger and Red-Hair Shanks seem pretty tough, but what aaare the bounties placed on their heaaads and another question will you marry meeeeeee.
O: "ODA FLYING CROSS CHOP"!!! KAPOW!! THE SBS IS OVER!! SEE YOU NEXT VOLUME!! YAAAH!!!
D: Odacchi! Have no fear, for today, yes, today is the day you will start the SBS! So, are you ready?! Huh? Odacchi? Oda-chaaaaan! Ahh! There he is! ODA-CHA...AAH...AAAH...AAAACH--START THE SBS!!--OOOOO! OH NO, I SAID IT!!
O: Sneezes don't sound like that!
D: Oda-sensei! Good day! I have a quick question for you. Are the names "Kuina"(Rallidae)and "Tashigi"(Snipe) actually taken from the names of birds? Please tell us! By Bird Encyclopedia Checker.
O: That's right. More specifically, they are the names of birds that cannot fly. But just because they say a bird cannot fly, doesn't mean that it never will. After all, I saw a duck fly in an anime I watched when I was little, called "The Wonderful Adventures of Nils". By the way, Nojiko (Yellow Bunting) is a bird's name, too.
D: I couldn't help but notice something... On page 137 of Volume 15, the woman appears to have spring onions in her basket! Three of them! But the same lady later appears on page 162! Is it me, or does she have a bunch more of them? If she's got so many, does it mean they're having roasted onions for dinner? Or onion stew? Just tell me what she was going to cook!
O: Whaaat?! I am shocked, people. I seriously jumped out of my seat when I read this postcard, and this wasn't the only one. To tell you the truth, when we were drawing the chapter, my staff said, "Look, the onions multiplied", and I laughed, "Whatever, nobody will notice", but clearly the readers are not be trifled with! Let's see, the woman's name is Negikuma Maria (Onion-Bear Maria), age 43, housewife, and today was her eldest son's birthday. She wanted to bake a delicious onion cake for her son, so she was running about the town, gathering up onions wherever she could. So the answer to your question is "Onion Cake". Word is, it's horrendous.
D: I read Volume 15... and in it, Dr. Kureha says not to forget about his sickness, but sickness is written additionally with furigana as "Happy". What does she mean? Please, tell me, Oda-shaaaaaaaan!! (Crying)
O: She's talking about how being sick reminds you of the happiness you take for granted when you're not sick.
D: Hey! Monkey D. Luffy! I'm the one who's gonna be the Pirate King! You got a problem with that, Pirate King?!
O: All right, everybody, let's all be a Pirate King! Hey, wait!! Okay, next.
D: I am Jim Joel Satou!! And I have a question. IF I EAT LUFFY, CAN I BECOME A GOMU HUMAN?!
O: You'd get food poisoning.
D: I thought of a catchphrase for One Piece. "Friends and enemies, they're all weirdos".
O: "Readers and author, they're all weirdos". Wait, no, the author is normal!
D: Oda-sensei!! Those birthdays (in Volume 15) were way too convenient! I want to have a word with their parents! HOWEVER! Who are Luffy, Zoro, and Sanji's parents?!
O: Ahhhh... did I really take the easy way out? I guess you're right... I just made them up as jokes, based on their personalities. You really can't choose a birthday over such trivial reasoning... I'll reflect on my thoughtlessness...
D: What are Vivi-chan and Chopper's birthdays? Are they February 2 for Vivi and December 24 for Chopper?
O: YES, PERFECT! BWAHAHAHA, I LOVE IT!!
Those are Vivi and Chopper's birthdays!! Any complaints?! I'm not listeniiiiiing!! AHAHAHAHAHA!!
D: What kind of spot-billed duck is a SUPER spot-billed duck?
O: You mean Karoo? Well, he's an amazing spot-billed duck. He's huge, he has no webbed feet (land-walking type), and most importantly, he has teeth when he eats. Karoo's awesome!
D: Hello. I have just one thing I need to say. Please take a GOOD look at the Black Den Den Mushi when its lid is on. After you answer exactly WHAT that thing is supposed to be, you may go ahead to the next question.
O: Uhhh... I... I don't know? I don't remember drawing it, exactly... but looking at it, it seems like poop to me... like a big twisty turd pile... (refer to Volume 15, p. 31)
D: Odacchi, you are amazing. You made up your own letter. You know what I mean. That "thing" on page 180 of Volume 15. How are you supposed to pronounce that? Please tell me.
O: ぴº. This is how you sound it out. Without letting your lips touch, you must explosively let out a deep breath and stick your chin out at the same time. Ready, set, ぴº!! Well? Did it work? (In Japan, the sound "Pi" is usually written ぴ)
D: Hello, nice to meet you. When I saw this Q&A Corner in your books, I wanted to write my own postcard, and "find some sign of Oda-sensei's playfulness!" But then I couldn't find any. Everyone else is good at that. So here's my question. What should my question be about?
O: Are you totally cracked?!! SBS IS OVER. SEE YOU NEXT VOLUME!!!
D: Hello, Oda-sensei. It seems that lately, everyone wants to call out the title at random. Well, I'm one of them. But I'm sure you would like to say it as well. So why don't we split it halfway? Let's go! "START THE SB".
O: "S”. Ah... HUUHHHH...?!!
D: WHERE IS THE OKAMA WAY? Is it my house?
O: Hmmm. Where? That's a difficult question... since it IS the "path of those who have opened their eyes". I THINK IT COULD EXIST ANYWHERE <3.... AAAH!!
D: To Oda-sensei. The giants Dorry and Brogy's helmets look an awful lot like the Celts' horned helmets and the Verden-era (I forgot when) Swedish crested-helmets. Am I right?
O: Yes you are. The giant "Warriors of Elbaph"s image came from my original love for those pirates of the north, the "Vikings". So you are correct.
D: I have a question. Is Momoo a "Sea King"? One of my friends says "He's a Sea King!!", but I don't know...
O: Momoo? To be precise, Momoo is classified as a "Sea Beast". It's the same thing in "One Piece" as what we call sea-dwelling mammals in our world, like seals or whales. Therefore, simply think of "Sea Kings" as giant, non-mammalian animals living in the sea.
D: Does One Piece have an official home page?
O: Hmmm. Maybe, maybe not. Not specifically for One Piece, but there is a Jump page, and in there is a One Piece corner. The name of the webpage is "Pop Web Jump", so if you run a search for that, you should be able to find it.
D: Please listen to me, Oda-sensei. When I was standing around reading in a bookstore earlier, I realized something. I thought, is there some kind of connection between Vivi-chan and ancient Egypt? Vivi-chan's full name is Nefertari Vivi, and her father's name is Nefertari Cobra. In ancient Egypt, the name "Nefertari" meant "the most beautiful" or "the most wonderful", and therefore was often affixed to the portraits of queens and princesses. Also, Arabasta is a sand kingdom, and her father's name is Cobra. I'll be really happy if I got it right. If I am, please acknowledge me as a rival to Knowledgeable Himeko. By Maimai.
O: I see... Is that what it means? Nefertari, I mean. Nice. I most certainly used ancient Egypt as a model for Arabasta, so I just flipped through a book about Egypt and picked out names that sounded nice. I see... I picked out a good name (for a person). Okay! I'll acknowledge it! You are a rival to Knowledgeable Himeko!! I see...
D: How is a volume of comics created? Like, where exactly does the "name" get decided, and everything? Please tell me.
O: The "name". Ah yes. I do the "Great Name Introduction" in these books sometimes. I'll give a full explanation of the order it goes in. The entire schedule we go through to get this book into your hands. Space out dejectedly. Talk to the people at Jump about what will be in the next chapter. Think about what will actually go in the chapter. Write a "name" on a blank piece of paper. Fax the name to the boss. If he doesn't like it, we fight, or I rename it. Call the assistants over to my house, and we go nuts for 2 or 3 days. We draw the master copy. Jump goes on sale around the country. Now I talk with the high-tech boss Y-san about the cover of the book and how to color it. Draw the cover pages and make the SBS. It's already complete a full month before it's available in stores. The end. So this is basically how it works. Well, this is my schedule, but all artists have their own pace. Just consider trying to draw before coming up with a name for your master copy is like manga artists' block.
D: Um, it seems like whenever Dalton-san, the Captain of the Drum Civilian Defense Force, is asked a question, he says something extra after it that doesn't matter at all. Is it because he's a nice person?
O: He does certainly say some unnecessary things. But I bet it's because he's just a good guy. Oh, and he likes chestnuts, by the way.
D: Hey, you guys who always start the SBS!! Have you ever thought of Oda-sensei's feelings?! Sheesh!!! Oh... sorry, Oda-sensei. Please say, "Please say 'Start the SBS' today." Huh? Are you sure? Oh, but I couldn't. Very well, if you insist... START THE SBS!
O: Hey... I didn't say anything.
D: Oda-sensei, please settle down. Now, this is going to be extremely difficult for me to tell you but... YOUR FLY IS OPEN!!!! I'm so embarrassed!!
O: Aaah! Crap. My pants' zipper was down this entire time? Okay, I'll just take them off to make sure that I never have to endure anything as embarrassing as that again. Clank, rustle... okay. Continue the SBS.
D: When Dr. Kureha says, "My secret to youth?", what exactly is her secret? My senility is supposed to get much worse about now...
O: Your senility...? You're only 13. But anyways, her answer would be, "BEING HAPPY!!" She sure is living it up right now.
D: IF YOU WANT AFRODA-KUN'S LUNCH MONEY BACK, PRINT THIS IN THE SBS. from Grape mint Tanisugi.
O: So it was you!!
D: I have a question, Ei-chan... on panel 6 of Volume 17, page 176, what is Chopper doing? It just looks like the "Hen na ojisan"* to me!! Is that right? Please tell me!!
O: Oh darn... I've been found out.
D: Hey -> Oda-sense -> One Piece -> is just sooo cool!! When I was -> in class -> I accidentally drew BUGGY -> in my notebook! I have -> "Accidentally Draw Buggy" disease! Oh yeah -> when Shanks and Buggy were young, they were arguing about which is colder, the North Pole or the South Pole -> Which one's right? Okay, goodbye.
O: Ahh, the flashback from Volume 3. The answer is, the South Pole. The Arctic is not a continent, it's just a mass of ice. Land is colder than water, so the Antarctic is correct. So Shanks was right. However, the South Pole is not the coldest place in the world.
D: MAAAAAAAHAHAHAHA, AIN'T YOU A HIPPO!
O: Ugh. Shut up. Enough.
D: Hey, Oda-sensei. When Dr. Hiruluk got naked. WHY did there JUST SO happen to be snow obscuring the view of his MOST SPECIAL area...? by Ame no Kawa
O: If it didn't just so happen to obscure the view, you'd see his weenie.
D: Hello! Odacchi! I've noticed something incredible!! About Mr. 2 Bon Kurei. Why Mr. 2 Bon Kurei has that codename! The men have a number, and the women have events... so Mr. 2 is the male part, and Bon Kurei (Bonkure, the end of the Bon festival.) is the female part, because he's an okama, right?
O: That's right. The female agents' names are, in order, the happiest events of the year. So first; 1/1, so two pointer fingers (doublefinger) #0 is All-sunday (all sundays of the year). #1 is Doublefinger (New Year’s) #2 is Mr. 2 Bon Kurei (Bonkure)#3 is Golden Week (Golden Week, a week off in May.) #4 is Merry Christmas ...and that's how it works. I seem to have confused everyone with Double-finger.
D: My husband and I are huge fans of the "Hiking Bear". But we're curious about something. What happens if one forgets the "salute" (mountain-climbing manners)? We're so curious, we can't have any children!
O: Yes, that would be a serious problem... What I'm going to tell you is extremely important, so PLEASE remember it. Hiking Bears are bears that love mountains. They simply cannot allow people with bad manners onto the mountain. The punishment is this: sitting in correct Japanese style for one hour. It's very difficult. The people who suffer this have severely cramped legs, and they all say the same thing. "Please kill me, now". But the bears will not allow it. But that's what they get for insult the beloved mountain... (From the "Drum Kingdom Animal Encyclopedia")
D: Good evening. This is a question for Oda-sensei. "Möwe" (Seagull) on Morgan's chin, and "Krieg" (battle). German seems to show up a lot in One Piece. But do actual pirates have much to do with Germany?
O: Hmmm, probably not... In this case, I just chose words that "sounded" right to me. For the Krieg arc, "battle" was actually the main theme, so I chose a word about battle that would be easy to remember.
D: HAPPY NEW YEAR. Hey!! You!! Oda!! Can you beat my gorilla? THE SBS IS OVER.
O: HEY!! What the hell?!! Okay... fine then, see you next volume. What? Gorilla? Nah, I couldn't beat a gorilla. They are the mightiest of primates, after all. Oh, but they like bananas... maybe I could... set up a trap... and make him slip on the peel...
D: Hello, Ei-chan. I think I'm in love with Miss Merry Christmas' way of shortening her comments to say things as quickly as possible. And so, I'd like to start this one like Miss Merry Christmas would. "S...!" (Start the SBS!!)
O:WHAAAAAAAAAT?!!
D: I've been wondering for a while now, how old are Vivi and Chopper? Vivi looks to be about the same age as the rest, but Chopper just seems like a kid! Please tell me their ages!
O: First, Vivi is 16. Chopper is a human reindeer, so as a human he would be 15. Yeah. That sounds about right.
D: What would happen if I ordered "Fried rice but with no rice!!" at a Chinese restaurant?!
O: Go try it and find out. Then order some boiled tofu without the tofu. Okay?! What does this have to do with the SBS?
D: I have a question, sensei. How old are Dorry and Brogy?
O: Ah, good question. First of all, giants live to be around 300 years old, but they mature as half as slow as humans. So they'd only be considered "adults" around 40. When Dorry and Brogy came to Little Garden and started fighting, they were 58 years old (29 in human years). And they've been fighting for 100 years, so they are 158. But they'll live to be 300, so they've still got a lot of fight in them left. They're just a little older than Dr. Kureha.
D: Hellllo! Aaah, my nose won't stop running. Aaah, it finally stopped. Oda-san, I've been wondering about something. Something about Blue-Nosed Chopper. What does the X-mark on his hat mean? Aaaah, my nose is running again.
O: Okay, then. So about your running nose... Whoops, not that. I mean about the X-mark on Chopper's hat. It's actually the same as that thing. You know, the cross mark you see in hospitals. It's just tilted diagonally. Oh, and I don't think many people noticed this, but Hiriluk's hair was also the same shape. The shape of a hospital cross.
D: Yo, Ei-chan. Got a question. Does that mark Miss Golden week draws mean anything? Couldn't she just slap the colors on him? Tell me, man!
O: Yup. It does. It does have a meaning. See! "So what?" seems to be how you're feeling but... Hey, it's better than nothing.
D: Did you go to college, sensei? Also, in middle and high school, did the clubs you entered have anything to do with manga or drawing? I would like to be a manga artist in the future, too. (I'm in 8th grade and worried about my future. Please respond!!
O: Well, I dropped out after one year of college. Also, I've never had any sort of art or drawing lessons in my life. There's a lot of other mangaka who're like that. I'm going to give you a serious answer because it was a serious question: Relying on someone else, no matter what special school you went to, is the most dangerous thing you can do.
D: Hey!! Oda!! Sensei... Try THIS challenge!! Say "Roronoa" 10 times fast!! Roronoa, Roronoa, Rorororoa, Nononoa, Roronoa, Roroano... NEXT!!
O: Sheesh, you can't even say it yourself, you bum. Oh well, lemme try. NONODO... *CHOMP*!! (bit my tongue). OGHAY, NEKTHT!! (bloody).
Another game made by a reader.
D: Oda-sensei!! I found something rather surprising about the delivery man on pages 117-118 of Volume 18!! It says "Half-Boiled" on his T-shirt. But!! On page 69!! Those are the same people, right? And on his T-shirt, it says, "Full-Boiled"!! What's up with him?! Tell me!![4]
O: HE HAS MATURED.
D: Are the "Den Den Mushi" animals or machines?
O: They're animals. Insects.
O: Since being raised by humans gets them plenty of food, they don't mind being used and tamed.
D: Nice to meet you, Oda-sensei. I'll just get right to the point. Crocus-san has got the two S's backwards in the Volume 18 SBS! AHAHAHAHAHA!! What's up with that? (seriously) Well, Crocus? HMMMMM?? -From Akiko-
O: OH DEAR!! WELP, SEE YOU NEXT VOLUME!! GOODBYE!!! (We noticed before it went to press, but it was too much of a pain to fix...).
D: Why do all the crew members other than Nami wear only one outfit?
O:  There is a reason for that, you know. First of all, they definitely have many changes of the same outfit. And also, Nami doesn't give them much allowance. Stuff like that.
D: Oda-sensei, out of the 5 crew members Luffy, Zoro, Usopp, Nami, and Sanji, what animals do you think they most resemble?
O: But there's one thing I AM confident about. I THINK CHOPPER IS A REINDEER. (DOOOON)
D: Why does Buggy not bleed when he splits his body up?
O:C-come on... don't be difficult. He would be too scary if he started gushing blood everywhere.
D: I have secret question to discuss with you, Master Oda (this is a normal letter). Please (x10) tell me your home address. I hope this finds you in good health, kuhahahaha.
O: Okay. Post number 202... whoa. If I told you that, you'd be ringing my doorbell and running away every day.
D: Tashigi's age, height and weight please!
O: Tashigi? Tashigi is 21. Surprisingly adult, isn't she? She is 170 cm tall. And she is a lady, so no weight for you.
D: Question, Odacchi! Ace ate the Mera Mera no Miso he can...
O: But his secret move "Hiken" (Fire Fist) is a skill where he raises his "firepower" and turns his fist into a huge flame, so it ends up looking more like.
D: THE SBS HAS STARTED. (past tense).
O: Hahaha! Yeah right... Whoa!! It HAS started!! (slow-witted).
D: One of my friends said to me, "How can you read SHOUNEN Jump when you're a GIRL?!" But I answered him by saying, "What's wrong with a girl buying and reading Shounen Jump? Am I a criminal? I was a man in my former life!!!" (probably...).
O: I see. So you had one of those quarrels, "Pen Name Nishi-chan". But never fear, damn you! It's okay, dammit! 'Cause besides, Shounen Weekly Jump is a boys' magazine with a 30% female readership, to tell you the truth. Basically, out of every 10 Jump readers, 3 of them are girls. And that percentage carries over into One Piece readership as well. Just make some simple calculations and assume you have 1,200,000 friends around the country. If you understand the zeal of a young boy's soul, then of course, boys, girls, old guys and ladies can all bring it on! Come at us, dammit!
D: Oda-sensei! There was a music question in my finals! And on the question was about "Bach". Apparently, historians label Bach as a "Baroque" artist... So maybe Igaram (who looks like Bach) + Baroque style = "Baroque Works!!" So... Am I right?
O: Yup. That's right. It's going to be extremely difficult for me to explain this one. Baroque was a style of art, literature and music prevalent in 17th century Europe. In my own very simple description, it was absurdly extravagant. Excessively ostentatious. Therefore, I made the Baroque Works a collection of characters that are each over-the-top in their own ways.
D: I have a request. The other day, I found a White Walky (aka Hairy Hippo) on the side of the road. Please raise it in your house, Oda-sensei. From, New York Cocoa
O: NO THANK YOU.
D: This is a question from a Tokyo-area 28 year old male (working in the manga editor field). I would like to know the names of all the Super Spot-Billed Duck Troops members. Oda-sensei, I simply MUST know. T-they're so cute... I know this must be very hard for you, but please... do it for me. Super Spot-Billed Duck Troops members.
O: Hey! Hey!! Hold on just a dang tootin' minute. I know who you are. You're that former One Piece editor with a weakness for cute things, working for a certain Jump editorial department, Da-asa or Asada or whatever, right?! You, sir, are relentless. And now you're sending business questions to the SBS via email?! This is supposed to be sacred ground for my readers... ah, well. Oh but, thanks for helping me out for those 4 years. In any case, since OTHER people have asked this too, I'll answer it. The bottom row, starting from the left, is Cowboy, Bourbon Jr., Karoo, Kentauros, and Hikoichi. The top row is Stomp and Ivan X. That's all. I had the names all established, but putting them all in the manga would be too hard to figure out, so I decided not to.
D: Okay, there's something I need to ask you about, Odacchi. I was reading WANTED! (Odacchi's one-shot collection) today, and I was wondering, doesn't it seem like a bunch of your characters pick their noses a lot? (P.N. Pleasure)
O: Yeah, they do. Pick, pick, picky. So you wonder why... well, doesn't everyone pick their nose? The other mangakas just have their cameras pointed away when it happens. If you don't pick your nose... your boogers would collect up!! Oh dear... another dirty topic. Printing this kind of stuff makes all the female readers cringe. It'll happen again. But the guys laugh their asses off! Right?! Okay, next.
D: To Oda-sensei. Hello! I simply must ask you a very serious question. On page 94 of One Piece Vol. 18, the "Spiders Cafe" looks an awful lot like the "Bagdad Cafe", directed by Percy Adlon. Did you use that as inspiration? I really like that movie, so please tell me if it's true.
O: Wow, I'm impressed. 15 years old and you like that movie? That's right. I just loved the atmosphere of that movie so much. But that kind of refined coolness is so out of place in a shounen manga, I was really the only one who knew what it was from. Anyone with good taste should watch it. It'll stick in your heart. "Baghdad Cafe".
D: Oda-sensei, I went to a flower shop, and they were selling "Crocus" flower seeds. Does that have any connection to Crocus-san?
O: It means "trust" in the language of flowers.
D: All the guys at school talk about is "Nami's chest"! Please scold them for me!!
O: Ahhh... but... Well, there's no age written on this postcard, but judging from the writing, I'd say you're probably in middle school. And you know guys in middle school. They're all little pervs. They can't help it. I really don't have the right to scold them. (hey).
D: WHAT HAPPENS IF A PERSON EATS A HITO HITO NO MI?
O: I suppose I should say they "BECOME HUMAN". Uh, I guess you could say that means like becoming an adult, or finding your true spirit or something. So basically, people will live more human-like. Well. I guess you could say that. Or not. Basically, not. Goodbye. (runs away).
D: Oda-chan!! Today is the day for you to answer this!! What about Sanji's left eye?!
O: There it is... again. I get a lot of these. So many, in fact, that I usually just ignored them... all right. I will finally answer one of One Piece's 7 great mysteries, "Sanji's Left Eye"!! Come on out, Sanji!! Sanji: Hey. You called? What? You want me to show you my left eye?! THAT'S what you called me for? Honestly... fine, fine. You wanna see it? There you go, take a good look. See? WHOAAAAA!!! FOR REAL?!! WOW...!! THE SBS IS OVER!! SEE YOU NEXT TIME!!
D: They don't show One Piece on TV where I live... How can we stand for such atrocities? Please (x2), I don't care if they're just re-runs or whatever, just have them broadcast here where I live! Though it's probably an impossible request...
O: It shouldn't be impossible. I've received quite a lot of these letters for a while, but I can't do anything about it. After checking with the animation company, as of Dec. 4, 2001, One Piece is shown on 27 stations nationwide, and it's just started running in Taiwan. There are three prefectures in which it doesn't air, however: Aomori, Yamaguchi and Oita. But even in these areas, there are some people who say they can watch it. They must be people who live close enough to other prefectures to pick up the neighbouring prefectures' broadcast signals. Here's what you can try. One Piece is a program on the Fuji TV network, so write a letter saying "I want to see One Piece" to the Fuji station in your prefecture. If the station hears a large outcry, they may consider it. I know there's a lot of other anime you can't see unless you live near Tokyo. I grew up in Kyushu, so I know your pain. Damn. Tokyo's pretty mean, huh?!
D: What are "Orange Pekoe" and "Apple Tea"?
O: Oh I'm sure you can figure out what Apple Tea is, right? It's a type of tea. And orange pekoe is another kind of tea. It's true that all the members of the BW like different kinds of tea. Mr. 3likes "Earl Grey", Miss Golden week likes "green tea", Mr.5 likes "gunpowder tea", and Miss Valentine likes "lemon tea", and so on. They drink it at a lot of different places. But Mr. 2 likes "takopa".
D: Nice to meet you, Oda-sensei. I noticed something when I was re-reading the books. I'm talking about this person on the left in Volume 18, page 162, 2nd panel, and this person on the right in Volume 19, page 15, 5th panel. Are they the same person?
O: Yes. That's right. You're quite correct. If you look at the current "Rebellion", you'll see a lot of members of the "Sand-Sand Clan" in it. Well spotted. It's pretty easy to tell when they're lined up like this, right? Oh, and just to confuse you a little, most of the people in the Rebellion call Koza "Koza-san", but sometimes you hear "Koza" or "Leader". Those people were probably former Sand-Sand Clan members.
D: Oda-sensei! I was astonished when I read Volume 19! Because in the first panel of page 104, Samis among the people running about! Why is he in Alabasta? Why is he drunk again? Tell me!!
O: Oooh. I was surprised, too. I totally forgot I had drawn him. That's him all right, it certainly is.Chapter 171, page 104. Why is he there? Listen up... Today was his second daughter's wedding. Sam's wife left him to raise all of their daughters the summer his eldest turned 8. His second daughter was a delinquent. Quite the troublemaker... They fought often, and there were days when she ran away from home. Today, she is being married. Though he puts up a strong front by saying, "Finally I can rest easy now that you're gone!", he actually feels a little lonely but happy for his daughter. And so he said, "I can't stay sober tonight!" and he drank and drank and walked and drank, and before he knew it, he was in the middle of Alabasta. The people around him were making all kinds of noise so he started yelling too, though for a different reason than the other citizens.
D: Ummm, Sensei, on TV I heard someone say, "The next big thing will be Buggy underwear". Would you like to buy some Buggy underwear, Oda-sensei?
O: No.
D: Oda-sensei, I've been wondering about something. What country are Luffy and the others from? In Social Studies class, we learned that a Japanese pirate is called a "wakou". Is that like a direct interpretation into Japanese? Or is this manga completely unique in that respect? Please tell me. -PN Kuroman-
O: Hmmm. First of all, Luffy's crew is all "No-Nationality Men". You can't say what country they come from. Now about, "wakou". Yes. A long time ago, there were men in Japan called "wakou" who were basically "pirates". This "Wakou" would get into their boats and raid the Korean peninsula and Chinese mainland. Sometimes in your textbooks, it talks about "expeditionary forces" to Korea, but those were really pirates. They were there to loot and plunder and all that. Yeah, they were bad guys. There's also another famous group of people around the Seto Inland Sea called "Murakami Suigun (Navy)" who were basically pirates. They have been a big influence on Japan throughout history, though they don't get widespread recognition. A long time ago, I was researching the differences between "wakou" and "suigun", but there were "suigun" who were called "wakou", so I got the impression that there's no need to even draw a distinction. In short, Japan has had a lot of "pirates".
D: WHAT'S THE SPEED LIMIT ON THE OKAMA WAY? -By Mr. Two Bon Curry-
O: If you go over 300 Mascaras per hour, you can expect to be Mascarrested. (I'm good, aren't I?).
D: Hello, Oda-sensei! I am called Enari-kun. Why does Vivi always pull on Usopp's nose?
O: Hmmm. Uh... for example. Let's say there's a "saucepan" right here. Now, where would you hold the saucepan? ...See what I'm saying? You hold it on the long thin part that sticks out, right? And that's the, uhh... the mentality behind it. He's a very portable person. You know. Kind of a... one-size-fits-all type of deal.
D: I found him!! "Pah"!! "Ih"!! "I"!! "Fah"!! "Ruh"!! "Ah"!! "Hah"!! "Weh"!! "Duh"!! ....ugh... (Translation)Pandaman!! It's Pandaman!! I found Pandaman running away!! (First panel on page 60, volume 20) Also, I have a question. W, where does Pandaman live?? Does Pandaman like traveling??
O: That last one sounded really strained. Are you okay? So, Pandaman's residence. I've only heard the rumors. Some say he's a pretty big-shot kinda guy. On a certain island, that is. There's a reason why he's chased around, which is why he appears running in a lot of different places... I can't tell you too much, or they'll come to get me too... AAAH!! IT'S THEM!! (runs away).
D: Hello, Oda-sensei. I have a question. When Chopper eats the Rumble Ball, he can use seven different forms. Yet, he has more than seven. Why is that?
O: That's incorrect. Look, there ARE seven. No more. From left to right Beast Form: Walk, Horn, Guard. Human/Beast: Brain, Jumping, Arm. Human Form: Heavy There are seven up there. His normal "beast form" is Walk Point. His "human/beast form" is Brain Point. And his "human form" is Heavy Point. So you see, the Rumble Ball is a pill that basically adds four new forms for him to use. Does it make more sense now?
D: If you look closely at the legendary Moving Crab in volume 19, you'll see that, in order to get it to run, Chopper seems to be pulling the sides of its mouth. Why is that? Please tell meeeee!!
O: That's right. The hard-to-master skill of manipulating a Moving Crab is to fully expose his right gums when you want to go right, and fully expose his left gums when you want to go left. In professional jargon, these are known as "right grin" and "left grin". When you want to go slowly, you have to use the "right half-grin" and "left half-grin" (also known as "right smirk" and "left smirk"). Also, if someone on board happens to tell a really bad joke, the Moving Crab's face will start twitching and you will be unable to control its speed. So exercise caution.
D: ODA EI-DONO. WHAT DOES THE "RAN" IN "GAKURAN" MEAN? (a gakuran is a kind of school uniform).
O: SHIRAN (I don't know). Huh?!... shiRAN? maybe... that "ran"... nah. Maybe... ra... ranou (egg yolk)... that... "ran"...oh!! Ranpaku (egg white)!! How's that?!!
D: Why is it that when Nami and Miss All Sundaywear miniskirts and move around a LOT, you never see inside their skirts (panties)? What color are their panties? Please tell me.
O: That's a dirty old man question. And yet you ask it so plainly and honestly. Almost as if you don't understand you asked anything bad... You really should stop... Though it is possible to imagine... In Volume 14, I'd say her bra looked pretty black... No, really, I should stop... I fear for my life.
D: Salutations, Oda-sensei. This is my first ever letter, but I'm afraid to say I can't draw, I can't come up with any humorous questions, nor can I ever meer Master Brogy. So please, if you will. Please allow me to at least say the words that everyone longs to say... Ahem. START THE SBS! Hehehe... That felt great! P.S. I'm sure you get many such letters like these, but I assure you I'm serious.
O: Oh, of course. Feel free to do as you wish, sir. I am merely honored to have you read my work. Now then, let's get this goddamn corner started already.
D: Ei-chaaaaan!!! Nice to meet you. Ei-chaaaaan!!!!! Who is that guy?!! You know, HIM!! That BW guy that got cut down by Sergeant Major Tashigiin the "Ignition" chapter!! Does that say "I LOVE MISS VALENTINE" on his back?! Whoa!! I have a rival!!! Does that mean there's a Miss Valentine fan club or something?! Let me in if there is!!! Please! -by Miss Letters Day-
O: Hohoh. Very quick to spot that, weren't you? "Ignition" is chapter 206, so you spotted it on the very first page on the very first chapter of this volume. Now that's a dedicated fan. BW has over 2000 members in it, so you find all sorts. As there are guys who feel like rivals to the Number Agents, there are also guys that idolize them. There are fan clubs, too. If you want to join, send your name, address and age to the Whisky Peak AFC (Agent Fan Club)... Oh wait, Zoro destroyed it.
D: Where do the Baroque Works go on their company vacation?
O: Apparently they just took a trip to the Hokkaido Winter Festival. But since it'd be bad for each agent to know who the other agents are, they all received their trip train tickets separately and went on vacation individually.
D: No time for introductions, just answer my question. Did Miss Golden week eat one of those fruits?
O: No, she... how should I say this? She's kind of like a hypnotist. Colors can already affect humans subconsciously such as exciting or calming us down. So she's a painter who can further enhance these effects, not a Devil Fruit user.
D: In the Cover Page Stories, there are "Camie the Mermaid" and "Octopako the Fishwoman". How are the races of mermaids and fish(wo)men related? 
O: As you can see here, the ones with the bottom half of fish are "mermaids". The ones with fish-like upper halves are "Fish-Men". To illustrate the difference with an octopus, look to the right. As for the difference in their natures, mermaids generally try to be friends with other fish, while the Fish-Men try to rule the fish. That's the gist of it. Of course, their habitats are different too, but you'll see for yourself later on in the story eventually.
D: In an SBS in Volume 20, you said "Sanji's left eye is one of the 7 great mysteries". So what the hell are the other 6?! I'll bust a SHAKUSHI on you if you don't tell me!!!!
O: Very well. I'll announce them all right here. To start, the 2nd mystery is, "The 7th mystery is a mystery". The 3rd mystery is, "The 6th mystery is a mystery". The 4th mystery is, "The 5th mystery is a mystery". So... hahaha! It's a bundle of mysteries! ...Sorry. I'll think up some proper ones. (Am I lying or not?)
D: Ssseeennseeeeii, wait a minnnnnnnnnuttttte. I... I... If Mr. 7 became Mr. 6, what would happen to his face? 
O: Oh, if he was promoted? Hmm, yes, he does have a very Mr. 7-ish face right now. I'd assess this is what he might look like if he became Mr. 6. Wow, he's a changed man. He could even pull off a Mr. 9...
D: Wassssup, Oda-sensei?! I have a question about Vivi and Zoro (doooon)!! Why does Vivi call Zoro Mr. Bushido?! (dogooon) I'm super super SUUUPER interested. Pleeeeeaaaaseeeee tell me! Bye!! See you in a million years!!
O: You know how if you start calling a friend by a funny nickname, you can't really go back? It's the same case here. In fact, if she were to suddenly start calling him Zoro-san, it would seem strange. I think Vivi will call Zoro Mr. Bushido for the rest of her life.
D: Oda-senseee! I always enjoy the One Piece manga and anime. By the way, there's something that's been bothering for quuuuuuuiiiiiite a while now. What kind of alcohol is the one that Doctorine is always drinking? In the manga, the bottle's labeled "UME" but is it ume as in plum???
O: Yes. Plum. It's Plum brandy. Homemade.
D: Oh come on now, Odacchi. You don't even know what the "ran" in gakuran means?? Then I'll explain, just for you! The "ran" in gakuran comes from the esoteric Edo-period term for western clothes, "randa". How about that? Cool, huh? It's not ranpaku (egg white).
O: Oh, really? "Randa", huh? I see. I was so sure that it actually came from "lumberjack deathmatch" (the lumber is pronounced "ranbaa" in japanese). I guess I was wrong, then.
D: Okay okay okay! Question. BW is an abbreviation for Baroque Works. When I was in geography class and found out that BW was also used to represent "desert", I was so surprised!! That sounds like the worldly Oda I know. I have such deep respect for you! ...you knew that of course, didn't you sensei?!
O: Yes. A map symbol. BW stands for "desert". Right?! Isn't that cool?! I thought that up all myself! Yes, I did!! Me!! ......man..................... I did not know that...
D: A question for Oda-sensei. In the Marines, there are some people who wear uniforms and some people who wear normal clothes. Is wearing regular clothes determined by rank, or is it all up to personal preference?
O: Well... A little from column A, a little from column B. How do I explain this... Basically, when you first join the Marines, you are given a basic Marine uniform and cap. This is a pretty proud moment that you'd want to call home and tell your parents about. Private First Class (Ittouhei) and everyone below must wear these. So Jango and Fullbody are actually breaking the rules. For ranks Corporal (Gochou) and above, you can choose other types of uniforms or wear your own personal clothes. However, discretion is advised so that you still look the part of a Marine. Now when you attain the rank of Warrant Officer (Juni), you earn the privilege of wearing "Justice" on your clothes. For ranks Major (Shousa) and above, the Justice coat and suit is the most common attire. (For more info regarding Marine ranks, consult Volume 8.)
D: It takes a while for time to pass in manga, doesn't it? Since it's a weekly story. So, should we wait like 2 more years for Luffy's birthday?
O: No, no, no. He has a birthday every year, just like everyone else. It's just that, in Luffy's case, every year is his 17th birthday. Doesn't that make you jealous?
D: Hold on, hold on, Oda-sensei. On the 2nd panel of page 215, chapter 216 "Vivi's Adventure" in Volume 23, I see 3 among the bystanders, THREE. He's just walkin' around! What in the WORLD is the meaning of this?! Didn't he die?! Give me an answer in a 75-character reply, right now!! (punctuation doesn't count)
O: Ohh, heisthere. Yup, that's him all right. What? But you want me to make a reply only 75 characters-long? On the reason why he's there?! Fine, here's why. BECAUSE... ah!! Crap, I' ve passed the character limit.
D: Nice to meet you today, Oda-sensei. Now, here is my question to you. Who is it that takes those pictures for the wanted posters distributed by the Marines?
O: That'd be this dude here. Name: Attach. Nickname: Atta-chan. He's extremely quick and can sneak into any place he wants. He is called "Flaming Atta-chan" because he yells "Fire!!" whenever he hits the shutter.
D: Hello. Here's my question, Oda-sensei. Among all your characters, which one do you think of as "most similar to yourself"? (I'm thinking I'm a lot like "Usopp"...)
O: Hmm... Let's see. Clever mind. Cool and calm personality. Stand-out attire... Guess there's really only one character who fits that bill... RED-HAIR SHANKS... Huh? I can suddenly hear everyone shouting for some reason... Hahaha... AH! OWW!!! Please stop throwing things at me!! It really hurts!!
D: About the Alabastian Civil War. I know there were 300 thousand royalist soldiers and 700 thousand rebels, but then in Volume 20, Chaka mentions "2 million angry warriors". Where did those extra 1.3 million guys come from? (I wonder if it was people who didn't join at first, like Toto, but then changed their minds...)
O: That's correct. Alabasta is a country with roughly 10 million citizens. To make things simpler to understand, I left out a bunch of things, but there are lots of other towns and villages besides the ones that appeared in the story. Hearing "10 million" might make 2 million seem smaller, but that's still an armed uprising of 2 million people. It's a very serious situation. A major rebellion.
D: Salutations, Oda Eiichirou-sama. Previously, I went on a homestay trip to England. I have something to report to you, Oda Eiichirou-sama. THE TOILET PAPER WAS BROWN!!! (and slighty orange-ish)
O: FOR REALS?! Damn. Then you can't see the poop on it!! Is that because England is the country of Earl Grey tea?! Is it supposed to represent Earl Grey tea?!
D: Oda-chan! How you doin'?! (Inoki-impression) Umm, I have a question. In One Piece Volume 18, chapter 157, Luffy complains about lack of food with spirally eyes... but right behind him are Nami and her orange trees. Can't he just eat them? They're oranges...
O: Oranges... Yes, there are oranges...... However... To pick and take one bite is to taste instant death. Yes, instant death. Going a whole week without food is usually not enough to kill a human. So whether you bear through it for some greater purpose still remaining in your life, or pick an orange (death) and try your luck with the navigator's fury... That's a pretty big gamble... That being said, if her friends really were starving to death, I don't think she'd be cold enough to just let them die. *Brrr*
D: Oda-senseeei! YOUR PHONE IS RINGING. -Pen name: That's Right-
O: Nah, don't worry. It's just my editor.
D: I need to ask you something, Oda-sensei. I want to give you a letter directly, but I don't know where to send it. Please tell me your address.
O: Ahh. An address. For a letter.... BUT I GOT YOUR LETTER. (DUN-DUN-DUUNNN!) Umm. There are two adresses you can use. You can use the address for the editors' offices as written in Jump Magazine, or the special mailbox for the SBS questions only. Either way, it all comes right to me so don't worry.
D: How is it that the spikes from Miss Doublefinger's "Toge Toge Fruit" can also grow from outside her body (her clothes, that is)?
O: Huh? Are you referring to the fact that the spikes would rip the clothes? If I did that, wouldn't this become an extraordinarily EROTIC MANGA?! And if I did that, then I'd have to draw it that way on book covers, so then everyone'd be super embarrassed when trying to buy it at the bookstore!! You want that?!
D: Hello, Oda-sensei! Here's a sudden question. In page 28 of volume 18, is that an EARRING I see on that sea cat's left ear? What's up with that? Please tell me.
O: Ummm. That is "ear hair (mimige)". On a related note, everyone, try saying this three times fast. "Migimimi Migime Migime Migimimi" (Right Ear, Right Eye, Right Eye, Right Ear). Hard, isn't it?
D: Hello! Odacchi!! Do you think that February 6 would be a good day for Nico Robin's birthday?
O: Ah, yes, I like the sound of that. ((NI)co (RO)bin... ni=two, ro=six).
D: How are ya, Odacchi? I know how much you like getting butt-naked, so this must be a favourite season for you. <3
O: Yes, yes. I just LOVE getting completely naked. In the summertime, after I take a bath I just run STRAIGHT OUTSIDE!! And when the girls' softball team running on the sidewalk looks over at me, they say, "Yup, it's really summer now!!"... AS IF!! I'D GET ARRESTED!!!
D: A question for Oda-sensei!! Long ago, English nobility called each other by the honorific "Sir". Is that what the "sir" in "Sir Crocodile" is from?
O: Were you SIRprised? (good one)
D: One Piece, Volume 24, page 184! Why is it that when Usopp is fixing the ship and he hits his middle finger with the hammer, in the next picture his index finger is bruised?!
O:...Ah well, think of it like a balloon. For instance, if you have a long balloon, when you squeeze the right end, the left end will puff up. If you hit Usopp's middle finger with a hammer (wham!!) his index pointer finger will puff up. You understand?
D: Aaah, hello hello, Oda-sensei! Nami says stuff like "Tornado Tempo" a lot with her Clima Tacts, but what the heck does "Tempo" mean? Please tell me!
O: Tempo. It means weather. Weather in Italian. Tempo. I just liked how the word sounded.
D: If Mr. 3 is supposed to have Devil Fruit powers, then why is he floating on top of the water in volume 19, page 185, panel 3?
O: I sure got a lot of these response... You wouldn't believe how many postcards I got about this. But you guys all understimated me... There's a proper reason for this. Under Mr. 3's body there just so happened to be a piece of "Unbelievably Floaty Wood". And that is why he was floating so unbelievably. Let's say, normally a person's floating power is 3 Pukas, and a sumo wrestler's would be about 5 Pukas. But on a good day, a piece of "Unbelievably Floaty Wood" can get as high as 13 Pukas, the world record set by floating master Pukayama Ukijirou.
D: Hello, Oda-sensei. I need to ask you about something I just noticed. Is Bellamy the Hyena's name modelled after the North American pirate Samuel "Black Sam" Bellamy?
O: Yes. That is correct. Samuel Bellamy. That's him. They say he was a pretty big-time pirate in his day, and had a love for speaking. Instead of a "Hyena", he was more of a "Lion" fond of speeches.
D: Greetings! Why is it that Zoro has his swords held at his right hip when swords are usually worn on the left?
O: Uhhh... because if Zoro doesn't have something heavy on his right side, he'd keep leaning to the left (ha). Oh, that's right. I have a question for you now. In Volume 21, Chapter 194 "Cut Through Steel", why is it that Zoro has his swords on his left hip in every single picture? And why is it that on page 154, his scabbards seem to have disappeared entirely? Now, is it true that the mistakes in this chapter were so massive that even the readers failed to write in and scold me for them? Yes, it's true. Is it true that I didn't fix a single panel because of the half-assed reason, "there are too many panels to fix"? Yes, that is true. And now, a haiku: Hmmm, Oda-sensei. Looks tired again today. The weather is nice. Sensei, thank you very much for your time today. You're welcome.
D: I have a serious question for Oda-sensei. How come, in manga, no matter where you go, everyone always speaks the same language?
O: Because manga is something where everyone's dreams are depicted.
D: Where is Vira? In Vol. 11, it's having a "coup d'état", in chapter 228 it's a "merry town". What's going on?
O: Oh. Well spotted. 400 years ago when Noland visited it, Vira was indeed just a merry town, but these days it's a violent and dangerous country in the midst of a coup d'état (rebellion). But it's not really so much what's happening in Vira, as what's happening all around the world at this time. I think you'll discover what I mean in the near future. Not as large as Arabasta, it's just a small country in the Grand Line.
D: Oda-sensei, I saw the movie "Chopper's Kingdom on the Island of Strange Animals". It was really really fun. The movie that was shown with it, "Dream Soccer King" had a character named "Odacchi" which I was very surprised to see. Oda-sensei, DOES YOUR FACE REALLY LOOK LIKE THAT?
O: Yes.
D: Hello, Oda-sensei. Reading the latest One Piece, I've just noticed that Sanji has leg hair. And I was thinking, if he's blond, the leg hair shouldn't stand out so much. I am a huge fan of Sanji, so I must say that I don't like the fact that he has leg hair. Oda-sensei, I beg you to do something about this (from the bottom of my heart).
O: But he's fuzzy. You know, Chopper's fuzzy too!
D: Oda-sensei! It's bad! It's horrible! SBS is starting! ......Ah! ......Aaaaah! It's already started---. SBS started *cries*.
O: Don't cry. Seriously. It's time for SBS anyway.
D: I want to say this to Sanji! Why do you use "san" for Nami, who's younger, and "chan" for Nico Robin, who's older? Isn't it the opposite normally? Hey Sanji-kun, that's rude for Robin-chan!
O: Yeah. Really. What's that about? Maybe it's Nami's natural queenly-ness that makes him do it. But anyway, age doesn't matter, 'cause they're all free. Probably just random.
D: Oda-sensei, Hello!! Please tell me Smoker and Hina's profiles. They're both captains and from the same time, but are their ages the same too? Or maybe success has nothing to do with age?
O: Er. I introduced both of them at the same time. Birthday? Yeah, ok. Smoker's 34 and Hina's 32. They got into the Marines at the same time, but Hina was, of course, an elite. Smoker was the punk that never listened to his superiors. You might want to say that they're stuck with each other. Smoker almost gets fired, and Hina rescues him. But anyway, they both ate the Devil Fruit, so they're pretty important forces for the Marines, and one of the reasons why they're Captains at such young ages.
D: I have a question for Oda-sensei. In Chapter 212, is that little thing attached to the "Full" the Billower Bike? That would mean it works on water, right? What kind of a bike is it?
O: That's actually for both land and sea. The "Billower" is from "billow" ("a large wave"), and it's the reason why the tires are unusually wide. I'll use it for real one of these days. Wonder when that'll be?
D: I have a question for Oda-sensei. I'm always looking for Pandaman, but who's this guy that's always by him? And what's that thing he's always holding in his hand?
O: Eh? Who that guy? He's the TOMATO GANG, DUH. Yeah, that's the Tomato Gang. There's no other answer. He's a debt collector. He's going to continue chasing Pandaman until he pays for the debt he owes. He's holding "something like a gun" in his hand. There are rumors that're going around that it's actually a konbu seaweed roll.
D: Odacchi!! Heso! (Means Belly-button; Greetings used in Skypiea) In Volume 25, after Bellamy got beaten, that outfit Shoujou was wearing! "Cyberpanda", what's that Ventriloquize your answer please.
O: LIKE HELL I COULD DO IT!! IKKOKUDOOKAWASHAA!! Yes. Like that. That outfit is........ IKKOKUDOOKAWASHAA!! Yes. Sorry for making you read that twice. I've been getting comments that the SBS these days are too random. I'm really ashamed... Really...!! Sorry. That was, er. "Cyberpanda". It's a fake product like the "Dosko1 Panda", but it's more expensive than the real "Doskoi Panda". Be careful.
D: Buggy says "Yaraideka!" before a feast, but what exactly does it mean? I've always thought that was a typo, but my mother told me that it means "let's have a feast", and I was convinced. Is it some kind of a dialect?
O: Mmm. This was actually a pretty popular question. I hoped people would kind of get it from the context. If I must put it in the simplest terms, it is a dialect. It's the "Edo-ben". Tokyo's old dialect. You've probably heard "te yandei!!". That means "Wha're you saying !!". Edo people had very little patience, so "yaraideka!" means "How could we NOT!" I heard this from one of my good friends who lives in the traditional area, so I don't think it's wrong. I've been thinking about having a "Edokko Pirates" (Edokko means "kids from Edo"). It'll be funny to do that. Someday.
D: Hi, Odacchi!! I heard from a friend, but apparently the "Sokotsuya" (Careless person) that does Karoo's voice is actually Hirata Hiroaki, who does Sanji. Is it true?!
O: "Kueee!!". Yes. That's Hirata-san aka Sanji doing it. And Matsuge from Alabasta's being done by Yamaguchi aka Usopp. In the anime, say, if Sanji or Zoro don't appear in the episode, then the regulars don't have lines. What they do when that happens is they play around. *laughs* Like guessing animal voices. But they don't use their real names in the credits, so they just use "Sokotsuya" ("Rude Guy") like that. But listen carefully to the animals. If the voice actor's name is "Sokotsuya", it's one of the Straw Hats doing it.
D: G'morning. Um... Volume 25, Chapter 235, Page 174. I read "That's!! "MARRON"!!!!" (In Japanese, this stands for "Marron", the French word for chestnut). I'm pretty sure others have read it that way. (Because it's a chestnut. And it's Cricket. His head)... How 'bout you to just make it "Marron"?
O: NO. What're you saying? Come on... Jaya arc's theme? You know? It's "A MAN'S ROMANCE"!!! Ah! He is so cool. What marron... that's totally wrong. I'll say this, but that part says nothing about a marron or any chestnut. I'll say it clearly this time. The theme for the Jaya arc is "A MAN'S MARRO... ROMANCE!!!"
D: Oda-sensei, hello! I was looking through this book about monsters, and I came upon this Chinese monkey monster called a "Shoujou". Is that where Shoujou's name comes from?
O: Hmm. I guess if you trace it. It's written differently in Japanese, and it does point to the monster thing, but it's more commonly known as the orangutan. Yes, it's taken exactly. Oh, and Mashira's also like that. Japanese people used to call monkeys "mashira".
D: Hello. I'm a big fan of Nami. So here's a question! Nami's wearing that bracelet even when she's taking a bath (Vol. 23)!! I thought it must be something really important, so I looked through all the volumes, and she's been wearing it since they came out of Kokoyashi Village. And, surprise, Nojiko was wearing it before that!! Did Nojiko give it to Nami when they went to Kokoyashi Village?! There must be some secret sisterly love there... *sniff sniff*? Anyway. Please tell me!!
O: Yes. It is that bracelet. The morning of their departure (Vol. 11), the bracelet is gone from Nojiko's arm. On her shoulder are Bellemere's and Gen-san's symbols, tangerine and windmill. And on her left hand is the bracelet she got from her sister. They're not connected by blood, but Nami is always with her family.
D: I have one... just one... question for the honorable (no, really) Oda Eiichiro-sama. Can I ask? What? Ok? Yay!! Then let me really ask you. WHAT SPECIES DO YOU BELONG TO?
O: HUMAN, DUMBASS. NEXT!!
D: Hello! Oda-sensei! In an SBS in Volume 25, you said, "Manga is for drawing people's dreams." I was very moved by those words. But there's something wrong with that. My dream is to see Nami naked, but it's never drawn. Do you know why?
O: Nami naked, eh?. We all want to see it. She was in the bath before. That hand's in the way, damn it!! Seriously. And Vivi was covered by that stupid towel!! It's an emergency. I'll try harder on the camera angle next time!
D: Nico Robin's range in growing her body parts 200 Hana Hanas. Right?
O: Yeah. Something like that.
D: Oda-sensei!!!! My dad told me, "One Piece is a WEIRD manga", so I said, "NO!! ONE PIECE IS A GREAT MANGA!!" Almost. (really)
O: What?! That's a silent scream!! Why don't you say it out loud! Everybody, repeat after me!! "ONE PIECE IS A WEIRD MANGA!!"
D: Oda-sensei and the characters of One Piece say "Spirit" a lot, but what exactly is Spirit?! I don't get it. I looked it up in the dictionary and... it wasn't even in there! Do other readers get it? Please tell me!
O: "Spirit" is "to feel strongly". When someone hopes for something really hard, it happens. Those people are glamorous.
D: Hey, Oda-sensei!! I want to be a manga artist, and I want to submit my work to Jump, but there's something I'm confused about... Do I have to use tones or something special like that? Where are they being sold? Please answer seriously!!
O: Yes. This kind of question comes up a lot. I think I'll have a brief manga basics page made one of these days. You can't get equipment for manga at the stationary store. Let's all go to an art store. The people there should be able to tell you all about some, too.
D: Am I an monkey? Or am I a "saruagari"?
O: Saruagari. One Piece readers are all saruagari!!... Don't run, guys. You don't like it? It's a compliment. I don't know what it means, though. Go with it.
D: HI!! Eiichi! You said in Volume 27 that the Jaya arc was "A man's romance"?! As a woman of 18 years, how would you define my "burning passion for adventure" and "infinite dreams"?! And all my blood goes to my head when I read your manga!!! Take responsibility for it!!! Please take responsibility and include the girls, too.
O: A woman's romance? No, it's a bit complicated. The word "man" is sometimes used like an adjective. Really good women have men in themselves. You call them "chic". So I'll scream it once again: Men and women can use "A MAN'S ROMANCE"!! Women are included!!
D: Nice to meet you, Oda-sensei <3. I have a question. On my high school exam, I was asked who I look up to, and I told my parents I might answer "Luffy". Then they told me not to, because it's embarrassing. I really admire Luffy, though!! Oda-sensei, say something to my parents, please!
O: Ouou!! Mom, Mom!! How dare you!! You... yeah, you'd be embarrassed if you answered that you admire Luffy
D: Hello, Oda-sensei!! I've always wondered, are all the Marine Captains [Taisa] and above at the Marine Headquarters different than the Captains at the Marine Bases? Are they just raised tougher, or what?
O: Yes. They're way different. The Marine Headquarters are like the super-elite of the Marines. These men who appeared at the assembly in Volume 11. These are the men in the Headquarters' "Junior Officers" ranks (Lieutenant [Taii], Junior Lt. [Chuui], Ensign [Shoui]) but if the former Base Captain [Taisa] "Axe-Arm Morgan" or "Captain [Taisa] Nezumi" from Nami's home were there, they would be among those men. The Headquarters and standard Base ranks are about three ranks apart, you could say. A higher Captain [Taisa] at a Base would be a lower Lieutenant [Taii] at Headquarters, and a Commander [Chuusa] would be a Junior Lieutenant [Chuui].
D: Nice to meet you!! I always enjoy reading One Piece. When I'm at work, I usually listen to the radio, and the other day on Nippon Broadcast on Kitano Makoto's Quiz Corner, I heard that some unusual snow fell in France. That was pink snow!! Did you know about this beforehand and insert into the story on purpose?
O: Hmm, pink snow. Yes, I knew about it. It's caused by tiny particles of dirt in the atmosphere, specifically iron, that are red in color. Then when snow falls, it can turn pink or red. I've heard that some fell in France. There are also records of yellow snow falling. It's funny how pollution in the atmosphere can create these fantastic scenes.
D: Hello, Oda. I have a question about the priests in Skypiea.Gedatsu (Being liberated from earthly desires),Shura (A buddhism divinity),Satori (Enlightenment, comprehension), and Yama(Another Buddhism divinity)... Since it's God's Land, did you name them after religious concepts? Also, if you don't mind, could you tell us where Ohm's name comes from? Thank you very much!
O: Yes, that's right. I'm not very religious myself. "Ohm" comes from a holy word in the Hindu faith
D: Hello. Nice to meet you, Oda! I've been wondering about this for a while. In Volume 22, Chapter 198, when Crocodile has Vivi-chan by the throat, Vivi says, "This country... I-". In Volume 23, Chapter 216, when Vivi is giving her speech, she says, "I still want to journey with you, but I love this country!!!" Is that what she said earlier?! That's it.
O: Yes. Thank you for reading so closely. That's how it is. Vivi always felt that way. But, the roar of the rebellion drowned out the princess feelings. In the last scene, the citizens who had been scared must have been overjoyed to hear Vivi say something like that (tear). What a great story. Yeah... yeah.
D: On the Grand Line, you can't use compass directions, right? So in Volume 24, Chapter 218, when Robin asks "Is the Log Pose all right?" why does Nami respond, "Straight forward, North by Northwest!!"? If you can't give a satisfactory answer, jump into an ice cold pool.
O: Uh, it's summer now. Let' see. On the Grand Line, you can still tell directions when on land. On the previous island, Nami confirmed that the next island was in the North by Northwest direction, and since they were proceeding that way, she said that. I'm not jumping into anything.
D: In the One Piece anime, when Sanji says "Naaami-swaaaan <3 ", try saying "Nooomi-soooon". It sounds exactly the same!
O: Okay. Thank you, Sasuke. I'll do this for the rest of my life.
D: In Chapter 251(Volume 27), page 91, where there's a "Shakin!!" SFX, is Usoppdoing the Kamen Rider finishing pose? Oda, how much do you like Kamen Rider?
O: Do you know this? I used to watch Kamen Rider when I was a kid. It was originally adapted from Ishi nomori Shotaro-san's manga, though that's over now.
D: If Zoro and Sanji had a serious fight, who would win? Zoro beat Mr. 1, so... he's stronger, right...?
O: Whoa! That was surprising... I thought you said "If Zoro and Sanji had a dick fight"...You have to be careful what you say. Someone might hear something totally wrong... Okay, see you next time!! (serious = gachinko; dick = ga chinko)
D: Mr. Oda! In Volume 22, 1st panel of page 142, you drew the Poneglyph, but why is "Pandaman" written on it? Is Pandaman an important person (is he even a person?!) in the history of Alabasta? Please tell me! 
O: A round of applause! Clap clap clap. Well done in finding it. Even I'd forgotten that I drew that in there. But in any case, yes, Pandaman isn't hidden just in the drawings.
D: Oda! Won't you draw the seven protagonists with your mouth?
O: No, I don't wanna! Stop tryin' to get me to do stuff like that!
D: I have a question. The other day while listening to the radio, I heard that it never rains during the Wimbledon Tournament in England. The reason for this is that they use jet planes to blow rain clouds away. However, doing so makes the surrounding areas have a lot of rainfall. I immediately thought of Dance Powder upon hearing this. I'm quite surprised that it's actually possible for humans to control the weather to some degree but was this really the basis behind your idea?
O: Whether it would rain or not has been a life or death question for humans since ancient times, and many have dreamed of the power to control weather. The artificial rain that showed up during the Alabasta arc is something that humans have supposedly invented already. However, it costs a considerable amount to make the rain, and there's always the possibility that it would have rained regardless, so artificial rain has yet to be proven beyond doubt. The specific basis behind Dance Powder is silver iodide, which, if burned, is said to seed clouds and make them larger. Quite a curious substance, isn't it?
D: Hello, my friend's family is from Shibukawa and they have an annual belly button (Heso) festival. I'm sure Conis would love to participate too, right?
O: A... Belly button festival? What, does it involve belly dancing or something? In any case, all the people of the sky would love to join! Even Enel!
D: Yo, Oda-sensei! I have a question about logia-type devil fruits. In chapter 280, Enel says that "Paramecia have to retain their original form..." Does that mean people like Crocodile, Ace, or Smoker, who can freely morph their physical bodies have logia-type devil fruits? If you don't answer me, I won't let you go to the toilet! You'll have to poop outside!
O: I'm not going to poop outside. Jeez, you're so gross. Talking about poop. But in any case, since this is a pretty big question, allow me to break it down simply. Paramecia (Superhuman) Clear enough, right? The logia-type, which allows its user to freely change his original physical form, definitely stands out on a whole other level compared to other devil fruits.
D: Everyone's so fashionable in One Piece, but are you stylish too, Oda-chan?
O: Of course. A man should look his best every day. My hair is in a "free-grow" style that accentuates an au naturel sense. My clothes are radiant rags that match all four seasons. No belts for me, as that would restrict my vibrant joie de vivre. And comfortable flip flops even when entering high class hotels.
D: What do Zoro's new attack "X-Pound Cannon" mean? 12-pound cannon
O: "12-pound cannon" and "24-pound cannon" attacks refer to cannons that can shoot cannonballs of those weights. 12 pounds might not sound like much, but the cannon needed to shoot them will need to weight over 1 ton. (1 pound = roughly 0.45kg). What you shouldn't get them mixed up for is a fond de veau. That's something used in French cuisine. (Note: Yes, Fond de veau is a Japanese pun pronunciation on "X-pondo hou," the spelling for "X-pound cannon." Even in Japanese, it's a stretch.)
D: Hello, Oda-sensei! I always read your manga with great pleasure. This might be sudden, but there's something I simply have to ask you. And that's about this picture right here. "Aww, isn't Chopper's surprised, round head so cute..." WAIT, NO! My real question is... "CHOPPER'S ANTLERS SHOULDN'T BE ATTACHED TO HIS HAT! THEY SHOULD BE ATTACHED TO HIS HEAD!"
O: Ah, I got a mountain-load of letters about this, so let me just say to all of you... NOT EVERYTHING SEEN BY THE EYES IS LITERAL TRUTH Basically, in this scene, Chopper was SO surprised that he felt even his antlers were about to jump out. That's what he was trying to convey to us by striking this pose. Maybe! It could be said... That this was his own... unique style of... Rock! Ok, next question.
D: In Chapter 284's cover page, you drew an adorable dog smoking a cigarette. Even if you are Oda-sensei, I cannot let this stand by! Are you trying to give this dog health problems?!
O: Oh... Clearly, we were quite careless about this matter... We are terribly sorry. I'll make sure I properly scold Sanji. That troublemaker!
D: Hello, Oda-san! I would really, really, really like to see what "Nnke-kun" looks like, the partner of "Domo-kun" (Volume 2, p. 13) who's always trying to take over the world.
O: Oh, I see. You're talking about my two hidden characters from long ago. In One Piece "Blue", I mentioned that Domo-kun had a friend, so you must have gotten curious. Well, here they are! Domo-kun and Nnke-kun!! Clap clap clap! I came up with these guys back in my high school days. In my collection of "masterpieces" called "Wanted", these guys are hidden in the one-shot "Future Present from God". Since I've introduced them here, I might just slip them in for future chapters, haha.
D: Is the Almighty God Enel wearing a rubber swimming cap on his head?
O:...Uh huh, sure (lazy answer). Oh wait- There's no rubber on the Sky Islands. Umm... it's made out of cloth. (super lazy answer)
D: Hello, Oda-sensei. In the right corner of the first panel in Volume 26, page 54, is that the normally nonchalant Zoro diving into the sea cloud? He really must've wanted to dive in there!
O: Yeah, what an idiot.
D: Hello, my name is Akihiko. You must have gotten a ton of letters saying you made a mistake about the battle scene around volume 28, p. 155, right? Since I know you're very busy, I came up with an explanation of my own. Basically, during the "Surprise Dial Illusion,"Hotori and Kotori's necks must have also spun around and around, right?! Yes, now it all makes sense...
O: Ohhh! Akihiko! You're such a greeaaaat guy! Yes, I got a lot of letters pointing out this scene to me Somehow, even I mixed up the which dial was on which hand for these two (sorry). When I noticed, I worried over what I should do and decided to just ignore it for now (HEY!), but then your letter came along. I'm shedding tears of joy. Thank you, Akihiko. Good job! Well, you heard the explanation, folks! That's what happened! (HEY!)
D: Nice to meet you, Oda-sensei! There's something I've been wondering about as I watched One Piece and it's about that guy. Pandaman! He seems to appear in the anime during the same scenes as the manga. Did you have to tell the staff in which scenes he's in?
O: No, no, I've never told them even once. He even shows up in places where I didn't draw him. It's just the animators having some fun. I told the voice actors to have fun and ad-lib some lines if they feel like it. Generally, aside from important, serious scenes, I don't mind them having fun with the work and playing around because the viewers will be able to feel that sense of fun too.
D: Hello, Oda-cchi! Nice to meet you. I have to say I'm quite ticked right now! "HEY YOU! ONE PIECE READERS! Stop starting the SBS without permission! We should aknolwedge Oda-cchi's status as the creator!" Whew, it's nice to get that pent-up stress out.
Now then... START THE SBS!
O: YOU'RE STARTING IT?! Ohhh, so that's how you're gonna play it, is that it?! Just when I thought I'd regain rightful control of the SBS as the creator too! WELL FINE! I'll wake up super duper early and get in line the next volume to finally start it myself!
D: Hello, Oda-sensei! Why does Gedatsu's hair change from scene to scene? Just how many locks of hair does he have? Please answer in Oda-speak.
O: Oda-speak, eh? I'm impressed you knew about its existence. Very well! The reason why Gedatsu's hair changes is...! BOTEMANOHONUSSODEREMOKEFYOBOTEMAMUCHAPOPOSHIBIWHOREALLYCARESMAHAHANYUNYONYON. That's why.
D:  A quick observation about Enel. When I realized that his line, "I am God" (神なり,Kami Nari?)is the same as the word for lightning(雷,Kaminari?), I thought I should recommend you as the next presidential candidate for the WOF (World Oyajigag Foundation), to which my father serves as the current president. Ojayigag (literally meaning "old man humour") refers to lame, usually pun-related jokes that only old Japanese men would make and find funny.
O: Well this is unexpected. I'm still a peppy young man in my 20s. Please don't.
D: Salutations, your Grace. Forgive me for robbing your Grace's precious time but I bring a question. During the bath scene of Volume 23, the men attempted to peek at the nubile bodies of Nami and Vivi. Now, although I can comprehend why Sanji, King Cobra and Igaram wished to peek... Why in the hell did Luffy, Usopp and Chopper peek too?! PLEASE ANSWER ME(SERIOUSLY)! If you don't give me a serious answer, I... I... I'll SUE YOUR PANTS OFF!
O: Why, you ask? Well, that's because they are all healthy boys. I don't think there needs to be any other reason than that. But for Chopper, he might have done it just because everyone else was. Frankly, to not want to peep on a beautiful girl when she's naked is a great disrespect to that girl in my o- Ahem, I mean, in Sanji's opinion.
D: Dear Oda-sensei, previously in the 27th volume, you talked about the pseudonymous Sokotsuya-san. And now Sue's voice actor is credited as Sokotsuya-san. Who is the voice actor this time then? Please give us the real answer.
O: The real answer is Nami's VA, Okamura Akemi. It's pretty hard to tell, isn't it? Fans of the anime, listen very carefully at the voices for the animals. Sokotsuya is one of the voice actors among the regular crew.
D: You know when Sanji and Usopp are climbing the ark on the 5th panel of Volume 30p. 153? What exactly is Usopp wearing? WHAT'S THAT "SPLAT"? WHAT IS IT!?
O: OCTOPUSHOES. They're OCTOPUSHOES. A brand new invention developed at Usopp's Factory, Octopak Shoes!! They have suckers on the back, so technically if you wear four, one for each limb, you should be able to climb anything, or so says Usopp, at least. We're not sure exactly how powerful they are. But anyways, try saying "Octopushoes" quickly ten times!
D: Good evening, Oda-sensei. It's a bit abrupt but let's have a match! Acchi Muite Hoi (right)!. I won, so here's my question. Just what are those things sticking out from the heads of Skypiea citizens? Some sort of supports? They're really thin though, so I can't imagine them supporting much. Please ANSWER PROPERLY! (says in a commanding tone)
O:...I lost. I actually lost at Acchi Muite Hoi.... Umm, anyways, those things are like, uh, natural perms. They also call'em NABH (short for Natural Advertisement Balloon Hair). How can they stand up so straight despite being so thin, you ask? It's cause, uhh, they're giving their very best.
D: That "Conine" medicine that Mont Blanc Noland made really exists, doesn't it? The other day I just opened up a dictionary and happened to see a definition for "quinine", which is made from the bark of a "quina tree". Is that the basis for the medicine in the story?
O: Yes. It does exist. However the "wood fever" that I described in the story does not exist, so have no fear. Covering topics about disease is always delicate, as there is always the chance that people will find it too upsetting or it has too deep a historical context. Therefore authors tend to fudge the details somewhat.
D: Oda-sensei, HESO! I am an 8-year old girl who likes animals and One Piece. I found a bird named "Aisa" in a book of animals. Did you take Shandia Aisa's name from the bird?
O: That's right! It's a bird. Whenever I have trouble with a name, I just open my handy-dandy book of birds. It works pretty well for girls' names!
D: Hello! Odacchi-sensei. I've always wanted to ask you about something, and that subject is... the anime voice actors! I think it would be really neat and informative to have profiles or messages from the cast that breathes life in Luffy and friends! By the way, I am a big fan of Zoro's VA,Kazuya Nakai.
O: A lot of people are asking for this. I'll have to think about it.
D: Oda-sensei, try changing the "shi" in Nico Robin's "shinko furuuru" (Cinco Fleur) to "chi". If you don't say it... I'll do it.
O: So "Chinko Fleur"? (sounds like "wave your wang around") CHINKO FURUURU! (mimics Robin's voice) HEY WAIT A SECOND! Don't make me say that! This manga is an extremely refined and elegant piece of art. Please don't dirty it.
D: What's the situation underneath thoses leaves around Wiper's waist? Is he letting'em "hang free"?
O: HANGING' FREE, BROTHA!. (thumbs up!) I think. But it must be troublesome to have them swinging wildly during battle. Hmm, maybe he's wearing some sort of loincloth underneath. Well... I dunno. ("HEY!")
D: One day, my friend "H." was telling me, "Hey, did you know Enel's stretchy ears (<3) are actually..." and then he received judgement and was blown to smithereens...
What was he trying to tell me, even though he knew his life was in danger???!!!
O: Enel already left for the Fairy Vearth so I'll answer for him. Enel's stretchy ears are actually made of mochi... (sticky rice cake) YAHAHAHA! KABOOM!
D: Oda-sensei! I searched for Pandaman in Volumes 5 to 31, and I found he showed up 92 times! Aim for 100!
P.N. Pandaman No. 2
O: Well done, all of you. But I can't tell you the real answer. (← doesn't remember)
D: Greetings, Oda-sensei. I'm always enjoying your manga. Cutting to the chase, I have a question about the "monsters" in Vol. 32, Chapter 299. At the highest peak of the Harz Mountain ranges in Germany, located on the Mt. Brocken there's a phenomenon termed the Brocken Effect. Was this what inspired your idea?Sorry if I'm wrong... In any case, please take good care and work hard! 
O: Yes, actually. It's also known as the Brocken Spectre. It's caused by the same reason you see in my story, so it can also happen in Japan. Also, around the head of the shadow you can see a beautiful ring of rainbow light, which is known as a "goraigou", or "glory" in English. I'd like to see one with my own eyes, once. It must be cool.
D: Greetings, Oda-sensei. I have a question to ask you. In Volume 28, Luffy sang songs about "Southern Islands" and "Northern Islands", but are there also songs about Eastern and Western Islands? If there are, please tell me.
O: Well then, allow the man himself to sing'em! Take it away! Luffy: Yo. Huh? You want to hear my song? Sure, no problem. "Hmmmm-hmhmhmhmmIn the Eastern islaaands, the Sun is early to riiiiiisssseee!Gets'em all hyper hyper, its people are foooooolllllsss!In the Western islaaands, the nights are looonnggg! Gets your body itchin for action, its people are fooooollllsss!Aaaaahh, ah ah ahaaaa... that was a yaaaawnnnn!Everyone's a smiley smiley fooooooooolllll!" And that's how it goes! See ya! There you have it. I feel like I should stop trying to live life so seriously. Next question, please.
D: Good day to you, Odacchi! By the way, I'd like to know the birthday of our idol, Tashigi-chan. Since she's so clumsy (toroi), how about if its October 6 (to = 10, ro = 6)?! OK, that sounds awesome! Wonderful! ...and so, Master Chief Petty Officer Tashigi's birthday is OFFICIALLY OCTOBER 6TH! Anybody got a problem with that?! Bring it on!!(Eeek, I'm sorry!! I love Tashigi. Please give her a birthday!!)
O: Yeah, that's fine.
D: Hello, Oda-sensei. I have serious suspicions, so forgive me if I pose a serious question. It's about the names of Enel's special attacks. It seems to me like many originate from the names of Scandinavian gods and Indian spirits. Can you please tell us what they all came from originally?
O: Yes. Well. The names came from a variety of sources. I can't tell you a whole lot of in-depth information, but in general it's pretty simple. That should cover it. Also, "Vari" came from the sound of lightning "vari vari". So it was pretty much random. Not a real word in any language per se. Heso!
D: Oda-sensei, I have a question. On page 71 of Volume 30, Conis says, "I have to bring them back!!" and then "Heso!" If "heso" is supposed to mean "hello", then this doesn't make much sense... What exactly does it mean? I've been wondering so much that I finally wrote this postcard. Please tell us the answer.
O:"Heso" can be thought of as the stock term for all Skypieans greetings. There's no one word/phrase in Japanese/English that completely corresponds to it. It can mean anything from, "good morning", "good day", "good evening", to "how are you feeling", "goodbye", "take care", among others. It really depends on the context. When they say "heso", you answer "heso". It's all in the context. (Note: "Heso" is Japanese for bellybutton)
D: I was shocked when I saw how clearly ripped Luffy's abs are. Do you have ripped abs like Luffy, Oda-sensei?
O: Why, of course I do. Seriously like, when I take my shirt off... it's just insane. You wouldn't really think so, normally, but look at when I slouch forward... See? There are three separate areas on my stomach, clear as day. What? Those are stomach folds? What are those? What are you talking about?! Look at my tummy! Look! (Blob!) Look! (Blob!)
D: Doesn't anyone on Luffy's crew fall in love? Will there never be a tale of on-board romance? (Sanjiis an exception in this case) I'm just wondering. 
O: But they do... They're all in love...WITH ADVENTURE. 
D: Oda-sensei!! I have a question. What is... a "believing heart"?
O: Good question. The answer to this is something you'll have to find yourself. It'd be easy for me to answer you myself (← doesn't know), but it's important for you to find the answer on your own by living life and eventually running up against it! (← has no clue)
D: Hello, I always read and enjoy your manga. To get to the question, Sanji sometimes says something about a "Brother Soul", but what kind of soul is it exactly? Is it tasty?
O: It tastes like umeboshi. Now, what kind of soul is it? It's a "Hey yo! Ain't I the shiznit?!" "Hell yeah, brother, you're slick!" "What the hell? No, YOU'RE slick, punk!!" "Yeah, I'm No. 1 in this town!" "Wahahaha"- kind of soul
D: Oda-sensei hello! I have one question. When Itomimizu's Super Sparrow Chuchun eats food, does it grow teeth, like the Super Spot-Billed Duck Karoo? It was so cute, I was drawn to it instantly. I want to know more about Chuchun. By then! (P.S. I hope more of these Super animals continue to show up!)
O: Yes, it has teeth. Its favorite foods are Super Worms, Super Sharks, and Super Footballfish.
D: On p. 80 of Volume 9, a man with a strange hairdo named Commodore Pudding Pudding (Purin Purin) of the 77th Marine Branch was introduced. Was he modeled on Purin Purin-chan from the 1981 anime, "Tales of Purin Purin"?? I've been wondering for ages. Please tell me.
O: Wow, that takes me back. It wasn't really a model, just a vague memory. It's not as if I liked the show. It was a puppet show aimed at girls, featuring a princess named Purin Purin, right? I guess she got that name because she was a princess. My older sister liked the show, but all I could remember was, what a dumb name and hairstyle. I'm guessing you saw a rerun and noticed the similarity, Kana-chan. Thank you. They sure had a lot of weird puppet shows back then.
D: Hello, Oda-sensei. I have always enjoyed reading One Piece. Now forgive me for being so blunt, but I want to see Luffy try on all the wigs in the changing room on 2nd panel of p. 168 in Volume 33! Please, Oda-sensei!! Do it for me!!
O: Oh yes, all those mysterious costumes. I left that one up to my staff member Y-san, since that's in his field of interest. He happens to be the father of one child who loves Sailor M**n very much. By the way, my workplace is a collection of freaks and weirdos. They all look pretty intimidating, don't they? The Foxy Pirates mention Peanuts Strategy.
D: In Volume 33, "Davy Back Fight!!" p. 152, what do peanuts have to do with "Peanuts Strategy"?
O: I dunno... I tried using it in a sense like "coward". For fun. It's not like I'm making fun of peanuts or anything. Peanuts from Chiba are yummy.
D: Would you care for some delicious green onion cakes?
O: Awesome, green onion cakes! Wha? I can really have some? Mmnn! I can hardly describe this wonderful harmony brought out by the taste of green onions and cream...
D: Odacchi, greetings! I've been harboring some doubts lately. In Chapter 277 of Volume 30, when Luffy is trying to escape from the giant anaconda, he opens up the snake's eyelids, but how can he do that when he's inside the eye? Please ask Luffy how he did that!!
O: Yeah I know, that didn't make any sense. Luffy! Come here!! Luffy: What? What's the problem? There's nothing wrong about this. Oda: Yes there is! How do you raise the eyelid from inside the eyeball? And while we're on that subject, how can you be INSIDE the eyeball in the first place?! Luffy: It's all right, don't worry about it. Wasn't it funny? Oda: Yeah, I guess it was! That's the key. Luffy: Yep yep, ahahaha.
D: Oda-sensei, good afternoon. Try saying Nami's special attack "Tornado Tempo" (Torunēdo Tenpo) but insert "chi" instead of "te". If you don't say it, you can't end the SBS.
O:That's TORNADO CHINPO. TORNAAADO CHINPO!! OK! See you next volume!! Oh, wait. Isn't this... sexual harassment? Hey... Was that...sexual harassment? (Note: "Chinpo" means "penis" in Japanese.)
D: Ding-dong ♪Oda-saan. I have a delivery for you. These are such beautiful flowers. Oh! There's a card. Well then, let's see what's in it. It says "...START THE SBS". Well, please do your best with your job. *click*.
O: Thank you, I appreciate it. I reluctantly accept this bouquet of flowers. Yep. I mean, THE SBS STARTED!! (BONN!!)
D: Oda-sensei, on p. 104 of Volume 32, panel 6, Chopper and Sanji are dancing, but Sanji is dancing with some old lady!! Who the heck is she?! Just some woman?
O: Oh... you mean Marilyn? She was "Miss Skypiea" 40 years ago. The most beautiful woman in Skypiea (back then). God Enel is scary, but so is the flow of time (ooh, that was clever).
D: Does the name "Nola" (in Skypiea) come from "nora-inu" (wild dog)? Or is it from "Mont Blanc Noland"? Did she get the name from Kalgara, because he wanted to meet Noland so bad? Thanks!
O: The Nola is from "Noland". Seto named her.
D: I would like to ask you something, Odacchi. In the first panel of p. 21 of Volume 33, why does Robin give Chopper her half-eaten cotton candy? This makes it an indirect kiss. If she wasn't going to eat the whole thing, she shouldn't have started at all!!
O: Look back two pages. "Nami-san, they're selling cotton candy", says Sanji as he brings back two. These are of course for Nami and Robin. It would be unladylike for Robin to take it and give it directly to Chopper, so she shows good manners to Sanji by taking a bite first before handing it over.
D: Hi there, Oda-sensei. One of the guys in the Franky Family is wearing fishnet tights. Is that his own sense of fashion? Or is that what you're into? I'm so curious, I can't even sleep in class. Please tell me.
O: If you'll allow to dispute this point, I can say I am not into that kind of thing at all, SWEETHEART.
D: Oda-sensei, I was curious; is Foxy the Silver Fox's Noro Noro no Mia Logia type, Paramecia type, or Zoan type? I'll be too anxious for your reply to use the bathroom, so hurry it up.
O: It's a Paramecia (superhuman) type. Logia (nature) type can turn their bodies into something completely different. Zoan (animal) type can turn into animals. Everything aside from those is lumped into the Paramecia (superhuman) category. However, there are some Paramecia who can change their own bodies, as well.
D: Now that so many Devil Fruit have appeared in the series, do you ever wonder if it would have been better to make Luffy eat a different fruit other than the Gomu Gomu no Mi?
O: Nope. I absolutely agonized over this before the series began, but not at all since. I love the idea of a rubberman. Well actually, I've flirted with the idea of the Ero Ero no Mi(Love-Love Fruit)maybe 13 times since then.
D: Hello there, Odacchi-sensei! I really really really really really love Robin! But there's something that bothers me. She has such clean and beautiful arms, and when she uses the Hana Hana no Mi powers, it makes pretty arms, right? What if someone with really hairy arms ate the fruit? Would they sprout really hairy arms, too? That would be disgusting.
O: Yes. As you can see in the figure above, it is pretty awesome. And so, the SBS ends hair. See you in the next hair-raising volume.
D: Is Pagaya's catchphrase "I'm sorry"? Also, why is it "I'm sorry"?
O: I don't know. I'm sorry.
D: When you're low on strength, Oda-sensei, do you use afro power as well? 
O: Of course. You can't very well draw a weekly serial without using afro power. I wanna be the champion one day.
D: Oda-sensei, I have one question. And that is: what is a "cutlass"? Is it a sword? Or a gun? Please tell me
O: Right. Well. As you can see ↓ it's a sword. It was said to originally be a knife used for skinning animals, that eventually became a short sword that sailors (and navy men) wore
D: Oda-san!! It seems that lately, the admiration of men about the world, the "Hercules" and "Atlas" are sold in normal pet shops. What do you think of this? The adults of today could not imagine such a thing when they were kids! Is it good for a "man's wish" to be so easily obtained? Please, say something to the children of today!! P.N. Miyama Mei
O: I have received this postcard from a passionate adult. Yes. Long ago, we could not hope to see insects from other countries, so boys could only look at books of insects and dream of the Hercules Beetle, the largest in the entire world. And now you can easily see it right in Japan. It's amazing. However, when you think that the reason the boys of today can see these insects in person is because today's adults have fulfilled their dreams of bringing these bugs here, I think it's a wonderful thing.
D: In Chapter 322, "Puffing Tom", Zoro calls Sanji "Darts". Why "Darts"? 
O: Was it too tough to figure out? I had several people ask this question. I don't think he was referring to the darts themselves, but the dartboard. Because it's all swirly. Geez! Stupid Zoro! Make a bit more sense, would you?!
D: Deer, Tanuki, Reindeer, Human. How many parts of each do you need to make a Chopper? 
O: 1 part deer, 7 parts tanuki, 1 part reindeer, 1 part human, please.
D: Is God Enel's favorite food apples? 
O: Yes. That's right. I like them too. Oops! You weren't asking my opinion. I like pears, too. Oops! You weren't asking my opinion.
D: Good day, Oda-sensei. You know, that Nami-chan is so gorgeous!!! That beauty, that figure! I'm already swooning ♡ By the way, when you compare her to the Nami-chan in Volume 1, haven't her breasts grown somewhat? 
O: Yep. I get this a lot. But when you consider that she's only 18, she's still in her growth phase. She's got more room to grow! I'll give it my best!! And Robin's only 28! I'll give it my best!!
D: Howdy, got a question. What are the bounties in the world of One Piece based on? Is it strength? But in that case, wouldn't Crocodile's bounty of around 80 million Belly be a bit small? Or does it get higher the more bad things you do? Or is this just a mistake of yours, sensei? The answer to this question has lead to a "Forehead-flicking contest" that is currently spreading throughout my school. Help meeee!! 
O: This is a tricky question, the more you consider it. The "Seven Warlords of the Sea" are on the government's side, so their bounties are removed once they are accepted. So the Warlords's numbers are called former bounties, but because Baroque Works was secretly formed after Crocodile became a Warlord, the number won't change to reflect that. If Crocodile still had an active bounty, it would probably be at least double that of 81 million.
D: In Volume 32, Chapter 297, how did Luffy blow up that big zappy thing (Raigō)?? And what is the "curtain" that Nami mentions?? I looked it up, but I don't get it!! Please explain to me 
O: Well... how should I explain? First of all, all you really need to understand is the intensity of the scene. The Raigō is a mass of thunder clouds. Just think of thunder clouds as big masses of stress with electricity inside. The thunder clouds want to smash that stress into something. That's when lightning reaches down to the ground. Yamada It's like when you hear "Lightning just fell on that tree!" Or "Yamada just got hit by lightning!!" That's called discharge. However, discharge doesn't always have to occur outside the clouds. Sometimes the lightning starts zapping around within the clouds. This is called "curtain discharge" or "curtain lightning". Gold conducts electricity, so when Luffy thrust that golden ball into the Raigō, the lightning all zapped through it and disappeared. But Luffy didn't really understand what it was that he did. It's all OK. Just remember, everything cleared up. And today, Skypiea is at peace.
D: I have a question, Sensei. In the middle of the Sky Island arc (Chapter 244), Luffy is shown wearing a wristband and bracelet. Why is this? Is he just dressing up? He took them off when they left the island.
O: Right. No meaning to it. It's just for fashion. To be precise, at the time he was with Usopp and Sanji. When they were changing into their adventure gear, Luffy stared at them and thought, "Ooh! That looks adventurous!" and borrowed the wristband from Usopp, at which point Sanji said, "Put this on, too," and gave him the bracelet. Something like that. Basically Luffy, Zoro and Chopper cannot dress up on their own. If they do, it's because either Sanji, Usopp, Nami or Robin is with them.
D: I was just thinking, when Chopper is his teeny (normal) size, how does he hold things? Does he squeeze them in between his hooves? I can't help but wonder. 
O: These things are best shown through art.
D: Odacchi! I have a question. Do you come up with the Devil Fruit Powers that are original to the Anime show? Let me know.
O: Basically, all that happens is that the anime's scriptwriters come up with powers that they want to use in the story, and I say "Yeah, that sounds good," or "No, sorry, I want to use that one in the future." That's all.
D: Odacchi-sensei. I'm super ×2 curious about something! And that is... whose nose is longer, Usopp or Kaku? Plus, Odacchi-sensei, it's not very nice to draw people with artificial noses. Damn is it long
O: Let's compare. Aha! Usopp wins by a rounded nose-tip!
D: To Oda-sensei. I thought the scene where Kalifa-san makes Iceburg tea was really nice. What does a woman need to become a wonderful secretary like Kalifa-san? from #1 Fan.
O: Glasses and papers. And you should say "Insolence!" a lot.
D: How many Marimos is your brain, Sensei? (Assuming Einstein's is 273 Marimos) 
O: How many Marimos? I think you mean "How many SUPER Marimos!" ...OK, I regret saying that.
D: Shimaboo (Mitsutoshi Shimabukuro) said that he went on a trip to an onsen hot spring last year with about 10 other manga artists. Did you go too? Or not? Were you late for the bus?! 
O: I did. The hot springs are so pretty with all the snow. And because it was outdoors, I went running around in the snow and CAUGHT A COLD!! (AS DID SOME OTHERS)
D: Hi, Oda-sensei! In Volume 36 you were saying that Nami's breasts had grown in size from years ago, so what are her 3 sizes now? I'd bet that every man in the country is dying to know this, so don't hold out on us!
O: What are you guys?! 3 Size Explorers?! Well... I do get these questions a lot!! And they never end. So let's settle this one once and for all. Come on out, Mr. Cook!! Sanji: There's got to be a better way to introduce me! Well anyways, I know what's going on... and I'm your man for the job. Here are their measurements according to my well-trained eye!! Nami: Height 169 B95 W55 H85. Robin: Height 188 B99 W59 H89 Whew, that's hot! I'm in love all over again! Oda: Look out, here comes Nami! Run for it!! Pyeeoow! (Escapes) Sanji: Oooooh! Nami-saaaan ♡ Nami: Stop publicizing everything! WHACK Sanji: AAAAaaaahh...
D: Oda-shan, hello! Ummm, are Mozu and Kiwi's hairstyles natural? Or is it some kind of crazy, ultra-fashionable hairdo? I wish I could see them from a direct side perspective. Thanx!! 
O: Yes, of course it's for their fashion! The name of that hairstyle is the "Squfare." You pronounce it as if you were trying to say "square". Ready? "Squfare". Yes, let the tension out of your shoulders and say it lifelessly: "Squfare".
D: Hi there, Oda-sensei! I was just thinking. About the "Doa Doa no Mi". If Sanji ate the Doa Doa no Mi...NAMI COULD NEVER TAKE A BATH. Well, good luck with your work.
O: Man, you're so right. It would be like the end of the world. All the women in the world would live in terror of being seen in the bath. It's a horrifying thought.
D: The guy in the seat behind me is hitting me with the GOMU GOMU PISTOL, what should I do??
O: That's a big problem. But that would have to be Luffy. Give him some meat, and he'll behave, I bet.
D: Oda-sensei!! I saw Oda-sensei!! Said one of my friends!! (E-mail friend) He said you were looking at DIRTY MAGAZINES in a convenience store... don't sweat it too much. I always thought you were like that. Heheheh... I bet that's how you do research for Nami's body!!
O: SCOUNDREL!! I would not read such things in the store!! YOU SCOUNDREL!! I'D BUY IT!!
D: Hello, Oda-sensei!!! I have a question. On TV, they were saying how the "City of Water" Venice has a high tide called the "Acqua Alta", which forces all the townspeople to wear long boots!! Is this what the Aqua Laguna in Water 7 is modeled upon?
O: I'm sure lots of viewers must have seen that program, because I got a lot of these at the same time. Did the name "acqua alta" catch your attention? That's right. Venice is a very famous place in Italy for its "water city" nature, so I decided to make that the design model for this story. But of course, as you know, making things realistic means looking at all the problems of an area too, not just the pretty parts. And naturally, I added lots of manga-style action. But you should know that nothing like this really happens in real life, so feel free to take a vacation there. I'd like to go to Venice someday too.
D: Hi there, Oda-sensei!! I was watching a pirate movie on DVD with subtitles, and I noticed the actors were saying something about "Davy Jones's Locker". But the subtitles said "turned into fish food". Could this Davy be the Davy in Davy Back Fight?! Was Davy Jones a real life pirate? Please tell us.
O: Well, to be clear, "Davy Back" doesn't exist in any legend. Davy Back Fight is a game that exists only in the world of One Piece. But the "Davy Jones Locker" that Robin mentions in Volume 33 is a well-known legend among sailors in real life. There are several different accounts, but in general there was a lying, no-good pirate named Davy Jones, a greedy deck chief who was famous for putting all the crew's valuables in his own locker. He was so wicked, even for a pirate, that one day the Devil himself cursed Davy to live at the bottom of the sea forever, swabbing the deck of a sunken ship and placing all the sunken treasure into his locker, where it would never be seen again. So when pirates say "Put 'im in Davy Jones' locker!!" it means "sink 'im to the bottom o' the sea!!"
D: Question for Odacchi. When the Sea Train leaves in Chapter 354 "Sea Train", is that kid with the runny nose in the bottom left Paulie?! If you don't answer me, I'll tie you up with ropes!! (totally kidding)
O: Oh yeah, I got a whole bunch of these. Of course, I drew them because I knew you would all notice. You're right. Paulie took this excitement to heart and is still building ships today. Kiwi and Mozu also tried to be shipwrights, but they failed the Galley-La Company tests, turned bad, and then found work under Franky's lead. And by the way, The other guy I've shown above is another one of the Franky Family members, Zambai. He also wanted to be a shipwright, failed, and turned to crime. The Franky Family is all of the rejects and scoundrels of Water Seven working together. To them, Franky is like a savior.
D: If you got poked in the butt with a Shigan, what would happen?
O: You'd die.
D: Does Nami wear a "New Bra" or "No Bra"?
O:No bra, I hope.
D: Oda-sensei, hello!! Umm, where does Paulie's rope come from? And where did he come up with the names for moves like Rope Action "Half Knot"? They're not just random, are they? Tell us!
O: Paulie's ropes come shooting out of the bottom of his sleeves. Apparently, there's a whole bunch of rope hidden in the lining of his coat! And his move names aren't random! Sail boating requires a whole bunch of different knots, and mistying a single one could spell the difference between life and death! So he uses the names of all the different knots (over 200) for the names of his special attacks!! But when he can't think of a snazzy knot that suits the situation... he'll make it up!
D: Hello, Oda-sensei. I was watching TV the other day, when I saw a program with locomotives named "Puffing Billy" and "The Rocket". Are those the basis for Puffing Tom and Rocketman?
O: Ahh, they did a program about those? That is correct. Puffing Billy is the name of the oldest locomotive in existence. And the Rocket was a train once famed for its great speed. Of course, they look totally different from the ones in the manga. By the way, when I was doing all sorts of research on trains, I learned that the name of the first man to build a steam engine was "Thomas". So I guess that's where the name of that popular kid's program came from. (Thomas the Tank Engine)
D: Please show us the faces of "Michael" and "Hoichael" from the backstreets. I'm so curious I can't even get up in the morning.
O: So, you got curious. I got a lot of these questions. They must be bad enough for Lulu and Tileston to think they would attempt to murder Iceburg. "Michael" and "Hoichael". Brace yourselves, and look upon the faces of these two gangsters!!
D: Oda-sensei, hello. Poop. Here's a question for you: Isn't that a thief right in the money exchange office, panel four of p. 180, Volume 34??!! What's up with him? 
O: Gross, what's with all the poop?! If you love poop so much, why don't you BE poop when you grow up?! (must have dreams) Anyways, they say you shouldn't judge people based on their appearances, but let's face it. He's totally a burglar. Of course, I assume he'd be after Luffy's money, but it was a twist of fate (not twist of poop) that he should come across some very powerful pirates. He probably overheard about the bounties, and ended up unable to do a thing about it.
D: I have a question. As much as I love the whole story of One Piece, I also find myself in tears just from the chapter titles sometimes. Just the other day I noticed that the title of Chapter 292, "We Cannot Meet Again; He is as the Half Moon, Vanished in the Clouds" was not only a haiku (in Japanese) speaking of the moon, but it also stood for Jaya and the Shandia...! This was so moving to me when I realized it. What are your favorite chapter titles so far, Oda-sensei? I'd love to know.
O: Aaaahh!! What a wonderful reader! It's all a manga-ka can hope for to have readers who are willing to read so deep into his work. Thank you. Yes, there are times when I put a lot of effort into chapter titles. When I find a really good title, it can pump me up sometimes, but since it's all part of my same work, I don't think there's much use in going on about this title or that. It's enough for me to know that there are people out there who like them. I'll have plenty more fun with them.
D: Hello Oda-sensei ♥ Lately my father (age 50) has been getting obsessed with the One Piece anime, and he watches it fanatically every week. It's so great that One Piece can be enjoyed by anyone, from child to adult! (By the way, my whole family loves it) P.S. Begin the SBS.P.N. Kuri
O: Aww gee... your dad likes it too? Thanks, that's so HEY!!! THE SBS IS ON!!! Oh my God!! I thought this was just a normal fan letter!! All right! Let's go, then!
D: To Oda-sensei. You know what butt-chins are, right? What kind of chin does Franky have?
O: Oh. Yeah, it's split in three. Well, two would be a "butt-chin" so I guess three is called a "butt-butt-chin". (labels point out butts and butthairs)
D: To Oda-sensei. Hello, I am about to have my fourth child. My daughter hopes it's another girl, but if it's a boy, I intend to teach him Okama Kenpo just like Bon Kurei. Where should I take him to learn this? Please tell me.(P.N. Bon Kurei Fanclub President)
O: Ballet → Karate → Working at one of "those" places. Follow the steps in that order.
D: Odacchi! Hello! I enjoy One Piece very much! But!! I always wonder about that trick of Robin's! "Cien Fleur" and "Seis Fleur" and all that! What language is that? Please tell ussssssss (Please?!)
O: Cien = 100, Seis = 6. The numbers are Spanish. Fleur is French for "flower." And stuff like Clutch is all English. It's a big jumble, but as long as it sounds good I'm happy.
D: To Oda-sensei. Aren't you going to draw Robin's flashback? Robin: "Cinco Fleur!!"
O:Look out! I barely dodged Robin's attack. Her flashback? Sounds like a lot of readers are curious. I'm drawing it now! Yes, right now!! Which means it should be in the next volume. I'll do my best.
D: Why is Franky's fuel cola?
O:COLA IS GOOD.
D: Oda teacher, how is the manga-drawing going? Well? Good. Anyways, I thought of a new attack for Luffy. It's called Gomu Gomu no Rain. What does it do? Well, he floats in the air with Gomu Gomu no Storm, then splutters a bunch of spit all over the place. How's that?
O:THAT'S DIGUSTING!! AND IN A WAY EFFECTIVE!!
D: Odacchi, Wanze is really something. I mean, he can make noodles just by putting flour into his mouth!! But... don't you need water, too?? So instead of water... it's SALIVA? Still, it's amazing. He just shoots the noodles out of his nose, ready to eat!! BUT THEY'RE RAW!! Not cooked? Even a ramen lover like myself would not eat this. What about you, Odacchi? A little dinner?
O:Yep. My dinner every night is a bowl of deeelectable Wanze Ramen! Yaaay! I mean, no!! You can't draw manga with a weak stomach. But the Wanze Ramen has earned itself a surging wave of hatred, and I think Green Gum Allergy-chan from Osaka has something to say about it too!
D: Heya, Oda-sensei. HNY!! & HDYD. I've got a very simple concern on my mind. Why is it that there are all these foreign editions of One Piece, and yet we never start the SBS in English...? I'll try it out. "Let's begin SBS!!" How about that? Now I can take my exams in peace!
O: Ooh! I like the global touch. That's right, reach out and touch the world, SBS! When I try to imagine the SBS Corner being translated into other languages around the globe, I GET THE WILLIES (DONNNN)!!
D: To Oda-sensei. The guard dog on the right in the first panel of p. 61 in Volume 40 looks like it's talking with the dog next to it. Is this true? If so, can we ask Chopper what it's saying?
O:I wonder what he could be saying. Chopper! Chopper: This is what they're saying. Left Dog: "I heard Jabra from CP9 got turned down by Gatherine the waitress." Right Dog: "OMG really? (lol)" Yes, it appears EVERY LIVING THING on the island cannot get enough of this rumor.
D: In Chapter 367,Sanji-kundestroys the Den Den Mushi. That's so mean!!! The Den Den Mushi didn't do anything wrong! Even a Den Den Mushi would cry if that happened to it! It cries when it hurts! It cries because its heart hurts even more than its body! So let's apologize to it, shall we?
O:Oh, well, you see... OK, I admit, I may have created that impression, but it's okay. On the right is a wild Den Den Mushi. It has the ability to communicate with its species through radio (thought) waves. Humans attach buttons and receivers to them so they can contact specific other Den Den Mushi. So, you can destroy the receiver without hurting the Den Den Mushi.
D: WHAT CUP SIZE ISNAMI's 95CM BUST?
O:YOU'RE THE CULPRIT!!! It's questions like these that get me in trouble with girls like the one above!! But we all wanna know, huh! Still, cups are hard to guess. They got all that under-this and thunder-that. It makes no sense. So let's ask our female readers for the answer. Girls, what cup are Nami and Robin?
D: To Odacchi Do you think we can fly with will of spirit?
O:Long ago, humans flew through the sky. Then, one time somebody said, "I'm not flying in the sky." Since then, people stopped flying. Because we lost our wings of "belief." Or whatever. Something like that. (← Hey!!)
D: What would happen if you got a haircut with Rankyaku?
O:It'd slice your head right off and get rid of all your hair troubles forever! Or you might actually survive it. If you are one of those people, go ahead.
D: GOMU GOMUUUU!! 300 POUND!! CANNONNN!! DONNNNN
O:"Soru"!! Whoosh!!
D: Hey, Oda-sensei!! This is kinda random, but I was just wondering what Wanze's thing  was used for?
O:Those are "Pop Up Goggles"! Special ordered! He is the head cook, so of course, he uses them while cooking. It's for when he cuts the onions!! He absolutely treasures those goggles because they keep him from crying. Also, he does not use them for anything other than slicing onions!!
D: Odacchi! Here's a question for you! Crocodile can't fight water because he's "sand," right? Then how does he bathe?! Does he at all?! That's filthy!! Do you bathe, Odacchi?
O: First of all, let's discuss the problem of Devil Fruit users bathing themselves. People who have eaten a Devil Fruit are "hated" by the sea, and cannot swim. The "sea" here can refer to anything from rivers, pools and baths to any kind of standing water. On a worldwide level, they are all the "sea." When these people enter the water, not only can they not use their powers, they have trouble moving their bodies at all. They might be able to struggle a bit, but it wouldn't do much good. That's if their entire bodies are submerged in the "sea." With less than half the body or just the limbs, it gets easier. Also, rain and dripping water have no effect at all. Therefore, hip baths or showers are the most common choice. Now, in Crocodile's case, "water" is the weakness of his very powers, so his abilities are robbed even in the shower. But it's not like there are enemies around when you take a shower, so I'd bet he would take them even with his powers being blocked. Don't you think? ---And to answer your final question, about myself bathing. As it happens, I do bathe. Twice! In a year!
D: Which is faster, between Captain Kuro's "Shakushi" and CP9's "Soru"? 
O:Ah yes. I got a surprising number of questions about this one. Captain Kuro's Shakushi (introduced in Volume 5) was a pretty tough one. To answer the question, speed wise they are about the same. But when Captain Kuro uses his trick, the speed is so great that he doesn't even know who he's attacking, but CP9 has complete control of their move at the same speed. So if there were a competition, CP9 would be overwhelmingly stronger.
D: Oda-sensei, hello!! In Volume 38, you wrote "When you don't know the answer on a test, just write instrumental", so I tried that myself. But when I got the test back, it was checked wrong. Why was it checked wrong? Please tell me why.
O:The results are not the point. The real treasure here is your courage, for taking the first step forward. 
D: Oda-sensei, I have a question. In Volume 40, p. 36 (Chapter 379, "Doriki") the waitress named Gatherine-santurned down Jabra. What kind of guys DOES she like? Or does she already have a boyfriend? I can't sleep at night...It's all I think about...
O:The idol of Enies Lobby, Gatherine has pined after one man all of this time. Her exact words when she turned down Jabra were this: "I'm sorry, but I'm in love with Lucci-san!! I mean, all a guy has is looks, right?!" The number of men who have crashed and burned before this burning love must be countless. Good luck, Jabra!
D: Hi, Oda-sensei! I have a serious question. One Piece has been going on for quite some time, hasn't it? Have you thought of the ending already? Though personally, I wouldn't mind if it continued on forever. One Piece is the BEST!!!
O:I've answered this in some magazines and interviews. Originally, my plan was that One Piece would continue for five years. I've always had the climax in my head from the start, I've just been working toward it since. But my original estimates were a bit short, and I was unable to finish up my story within five years (ROFL). And now our pirates have been adventuring for nine years, and I have no idea how much longer they will be at it (hey!).
D: O-Odacchi, what's up? Last month I bought the game "One Piece Pirates Carnival." Now, here is my question...
O:HEY!!! That's IT?! What's the question?!!
D: In the SBS Corner for Volume 41, you talked about Wanze's goggles, remember? In actuality, the part of onions that causes you to cry comes in through the nose, so wearing goggles will have no effect. So, be sure to let Wanze know. "When you cut onions, just push those goggles right into your nostrils, then you're all set. 
O:Ooh, I see. What a loser! Wanze, you dork! Hey! Consider yourself warned, thanks!
D: Hello, Oda-sensei. It's nice to meet you, I've always been a One Piece fan. Now, I have a bit of a serious question. In class the other day, I learned that the word "Rob" stands for "steal". So I got curious, and after searching, learned that "Lucci" means "light" in Italian. Put them together, it's "steal the light". I thought it was fascinating, because "stealing" is a concept that runs throughout One Piece, not just in this part. So you must have named him that on purpose, right?
O:...y... y... well, yeah. I-I... I did (shocked). You know me. I'm the guy who comes up with the deep meaningful names. Yep. In fact, "Rob Lucci" even means "steal the light", or SO I HEAR. (←Had no idea)
D: I am "Sogeking-ko", a proponent of all healthy young boys everywhere! Healthy young boys of this country!! Remember the question in the SBS of Volume 41, asking about Nami-san's cup size?! According to my rotoscopic vision, Nami-san's under bust size is 65. So her regular bust size of 95 would make her an I cup!!! (donnn) That's HUGE!!! I'm a D cup... Boys... can you accept this answer??
O:Well, I must say I received a lot of answers to this question from my female readers. Thank you for your detailed and in-depth explanations. But you know, the boys aren't gonna read any of these complicated, difficult answers, so I'm just gonna report on the most common result! Nami and Robin are I cups. Wow.
D: Now, I have a question. About the books being thrown away by Olvia's group in the 5th panel of p. 170 in Volume 41! The book titled Brag Men!! Isn't that the same as the one Nami's reading on p. 142 of Volume 13?! Isn't it?! Isn't it?! Okay, I asked three times. If I'm wrong, I'm gonna ring your doorbell and run away.
O:Oooh. Here's a surprise. Thanks for reading so deeply into it. That's amazing. You are correct. It's the book that had info about the Island of Giants, Little Garden, a book that is read all around the world now, as a tome of "adventures on the Grand Line". Eyewitness tales about the unbelievable islands, people and happenings in this mysterious sea, related by fearless explorers, all so outlandish and bizarre to normal readers around the world that they were collected in a book of tall tales and given this humiliating title. If this book only exists today because the brave scholars of Ohara gave their lives to protect it 20 years ago, it fills your heart with something warm. So, are these "Brag men" truly just liars? Maybe you can tell the truth behind the stories, through the looking glass of Luffy's adventures. See you in the SBS next volume!!!
D: To Oda-sensei. Robin's "Cinco Fleur". Why does "Gorin" (Five Flowers) turn into "Cinco"? Couldn't you just say "Gorin-zaki" like the kanji do? What language is Robin's attack in? I wish you would just make all her attacks in the pattern of "_nko Fleur."
O:I see... So, because "Cinco" is so easy to mistake for "Chinko" (penis) you want me to just have her attack the "Chinko" instead. Now listen here, son. This is the beautiful, regal Nico Robin we're talking about here. Chinko? I mean, that's just... BRILLIANT. Didn't I mention the language sometime earlier? Oh well, it's Spanish. This is how it works.
D: Do the names of Sodoma and Gomorrah come from the cities that appear in the Old Testament of the bible? In the bible they were destroyed by God. Are they being integrated into the story by being destroyed by the great "Godly" power of the World Government?
O:Uh... One Piece isn't that deep of a story (*laugh*). But it IS where I got the names from.
D: I want to know the name of the guy who gave Usopp the rice balls in Volume 36. He was such a nice guy (cry).
O:Ahh, yes. It was a lovely gesture, wasn't it? I was thanking him as I drew it. Well, he's Happa-san, a kindly old bandit-turned-carpenter. He moved there from Pucci, the town of gourmets. He's a bachelor once-divorced, so he made those rice balls by himself. Packed inside them were the Water Seven specialty, Mizu Mizu Meat, so they must have been quite good.
D: Blows shouldn't hurt Luffy, so why does he get bruises and swelling when Nami and the others beat the crap out of him?! Tell me!!! 
O:When the crew beats up on each other, it's always in admonishment with a strong sense of purpose, which is why it works so well!! It works on his spirit!! I bet Nami is thinking, "It's his spirit that hurts deep down!!" ...right? I guess not.
D: Oda-sama, we send you a letter and the feelings of all of France! I write you this message as the representative of a French fansite of over 1,000 members! We hope to show you, and especially the fans in Japan, that there are One Piece fans in other countries around the world!!! Question: Oda-sensei, do you have a good french bread?? I am French, so I need a yummy french bread to begin the SBS!! And lastly, "Que la volonté du D soit avec vous Mr Oda!(May the Will of D be with you!!)
O:Ahem. The SBS has finally reached international status. I appreciate that you took the trouble to send them all the way to the office in Japan. And this question, which you sent across borders and around the world... IS THE BEST YOU COULD COME UP WITH?! Plus, the answer is, I DON'T HAVE ANY FRENCH BREAD. Though I'd like to have some authentic french bread someday. So now that I've answered your question, the French edition is about 10 volumes behind, which means you'll get to read this translated in 2 years. I hope you're still fans by then! Thank you!!
D: Odacchi!! I've been spending sleepless nights wondering, when Kalifa, crown jewel of CP9 uses the Six Forms' "Tekkai", do her breasts still jiggle? Every time I get close to finding out, I get all bubbly... See, here come the bubbles again... blub blub... Bobajji! Boobabamb!! (Odacchi! You're the man!!) by Kathy Keisuke
O:And now we have a perverted question straight from Japan. What's that last part for?! You mean *I* have to check?! So I'm just a peeping tom now. BEY BIBBIN BIBBUH (They didn't jiggle)
D: Question!! If God Enel were to descend to the Blue Sea, how much would his bounty be? Also, what would happen if he did that? Would he rule the Blue Sea?
O: I see. Interesting question. Knowing how tricky he would be to beat, I'd imagine he could reach as much as 500,000,000. Luffy was lucky to be rubber. But like Luffy said, there all sorts of even crazier guys down on the Blue Sea. Enel would NOT rule it.
D: What up Occhin! Nice to meet you. (At my school, we all call you Occhin.) Now, what I want to know is, when Sanji uses the Parage shot to Parage your face, like in Volume 39 Chapter 372, how pretty will it make you? Lemme know
O:Oh, awesomely pretty. As you can see from Wanze's example above, it gives you super international movie star good looks. But there are two problems. One, Mr. Sanji don't kick the ladies. Two, he only changes your face. If you're a fatty boombah, you're just gonna look like a creep with a nice face.
D: Hey there! I feel like asking you a pointless question that I've been wondering about! A typical tankōbon will hold about 9 chapters, but sometimes One Piece has more like 10-11, right? Why is that? It seems like OP has been "thick" lately. And the content is hot!
O:Yep. To get all technical now, a comic volume has at least 184 pages, which can usually be reached with 9 chapters, but in my case, sometimes I put my foot down and (selfishly) say I desire this chapter to be in yon volume! Which is why there are 10 or 11 at times. It turns into a bit of a bonus for the readers. From my end, it's just the particulars of how the story comes across. Once, when I had an 11-chapter book followed by a 9-chapter one, the readers complained about the content getting thinner. And now you know why. (*laugh*)
D: Oda-sensei, I have a question! The part about the "Klabautermann" in Volume 35 Chapter 351, was that your idea? Or does it come from something in real life? Please tell us.
O:There are similar legends all around the world about ship fairies, but the Klabautermann legend in particular comes from German sailors. In Japan they call it "funadama" (spirit of the ship). It's easy just to think of it as the "guardian spirit of the ship". They believed that if a Klabautermann lived on the ship, you would sail safe and sound.
D: Hello. It's funny, if you hear "Kaku-kaku" you'd think of Kaku, of course. But there's an even pointier (kaku-kaku) guy out there! Volume 35, page 131, third panel on the left, what's that full-body angled guy doing there? Who is that guy? If you don't answer me, I'll pound you as flat as he is!!
O:There he is. Well... here's your answer!! His name is...KAKUKAKU-SAN!!! Too easy? As it happens, Kakukaku-san is very erudite (hakugaku) and loves to have long, outspoken arguments with other people (kenken gakugaku). He's also easily frightened, so when he gets scared, he starts trembling... "kakukaku"...! THAT'S WHAT HE'S LIKE!! (Not good enough?) SEE YOU IN THE SBS NEXT TIME!! (It's over?)
D: Good morning, Oda-sensei. It is my once-in-a-lifetime request for you to let him (→) start the SBS.
O: NO WAYYYYY!!! GEEZ!! What's the big idea, huh?! Who ARE you?! What kind of Cupid is that?! Not a love kind, I hope!! Go home!! I wanna start the SBS by myself!
D: Oda-sensei, good morning!! I have a question!! CP9's clothes sure stretch a lot. How many Gomu Gomus can they stretch?
O:They sure do. Man, isn't that funny?! What do you think, like 50 Gomu Gomus or so?!
D: YOU ARE ANOKAMA, RIGHT?
O:NO WAY, HONEY!!!
D: Oda-sensei, I have a question. In Volume 42,Chapter 405"Power", when Franky uses his "seek-and-destroy cannon" it says "BF36" on his shoulders. That stands for Battle Franky 36, right?! Well?!
O:Yes...!! That's right. As you will know from reading Franky's flashback, Franky created his own line of 35 battleships called Battle Franky. After his ships were used to hurt someone he loved, and he used that same sense of technological wizardry to fix his own body, he carved the symbol BF-36 into himself and put an end to his career of shipbuilding. After that, he became a dismantler.
D: I've been kind of wondering for a while, what was Kumadori's mom like?
O:Actually, she's still alive. Profession, assassin. 
D: To Oda-sensei. Does Santa really exist?
O:HE DOES!! YOU BET HE DOES!! I always stay awake so I can catch a glimpse of him, but I always fall asleep right before he comes! It's so frustrating!!
D: Oda-sensei!! I have a serious question. Will you ever draw Luffy's parents?
O:His parents? Well, I think you will be pleased with the next volume. Get excited!
D: Odacchi, nice to meet you!! I finally sent you a postcard. It's a serious question, so give me a real answer. That trick that Sanji used to beat Jabra!! If it was that hot to Jabra, wouldn't it burn Sanji, too?!! Wouldn't Sanji be like, "yeow"?? Tell me!
O:What are you talking about...WHAT ARE YOU TALKING ABOUT?!! Are those eyes, or holes in your head?!! What were you watching in that fight?!! His LEG is hot?! No, it's not hot!! SANJI'S HEART WAS BURNING SO MUCH HOTTER!!!
D: Sending my condolences with this card
O:O... oh. No no, MY condolences. (Does she mean "well-wishes"?)
D: PASS ME THAT PONZU!!By What the Hell!!!
O:Okay. Here. (Note: Ponzu is a type of Japanese sauce made with citrus fruits.)
D:Namiwas ripping Kalifa's clothes off after she beat her, to look for her key. So where was it hidden, after all that?
O:W... Where was it hidden...?! I couldn't say such a shameful thing (blush)! I mean, it was THERE, of all places!! Oh, Kalifa!
D: Umm, I have a little question about Franky-san. He was adopted at age 10, began building the sea train at age 12, finished the Express 10 years later, and 4 years after that met with the accident from "8 years ago," which would mean... HE'S 34 YEARS OLD!! Can someone really be so nutty at that age? Before doing the calculations, I assumed he was 18 or something...P.N. Young Iceburg is so cool!!
O:Yes. So you calculated his present age. That's right, Franky is 34. Isn't that what makes him cool?! I mean, that basically means he's just a total freak and pervo.
D: Oda-sensei. We need to talk!! I want... wait, first, put some clothes on! Pants on too? Good! Now let's get to business. HAND ME THAT PORNO MAG THERE.
O:No way! This is reference material! For my manga!!
D: Hello, ODA-sensei. Your body is fine? My name is Kimeunhyang. Lately, Volume 41 has been published even in Korea. This is a sudden question, what is "this" thing between the waist and legs of the ONE PIECE logo? A skirt? Is it really a skirt? I want to know so badly, I can't sleep.
O:Thank you. This was a question from Korea. I think if I draw it out, you'll understand. Is the "hand" part what threw you off?
D: Hey! Odacchi!! I conducted an investigation during my very busy summer vacation. You know how you use "Don!" or "Donnn!!" a lot, as a sound effect? So I counted the number of times "Don" was used in One Piece, through Volume 42,Chapter 409! (Only counting Don, Donnn, Dodon, Dodonnn. Excluded sounds which I suspected to be gunshots or attack sounds) My unofficial count found a grand total of1,469 DONS!(Donnn!!) On average, that makes about 3.5 Dons in every chapter. Did you know that?? Is there any other mangaka which uses "Don" so often? Come on guys, let's give him a round of applause! Clap clap clap... wow. Yes! Now that you're in a good mood, let's END THE SBS!!! (DODONNN)
O:Waaaaait! Let me say something first! HOW MUCH FREE TIME DO YOU HAVE?! (LOL) No really, thanks a lot. I guess that's just how many scenes I felt confident in! See you next volume!
D: Is it true that you shoot out a "Coup de Boo" when you eat potatoes?
O:OH YES. I DO. Man, let me tell you. I accidentally ate a potato last time, and one single "Coup de Boo" sent me flying to New York. It was Coup de Booman in New York. Of course, I was able to get a potato to send me back home safely.
D: Odacchi!! Out of the Six Forms, I want "Tekkai" most of all, but just how hard does it make you? I mean, some places it's REALLY important to be HARD, you know what I mean?!
O:WHAT EXACTLY DO YOU PEOPLE WANT FROM THIS SECTION?
D: Odaaachi!! I have a question, SIR! Wait! Wait! Wait! On Volume 44, p. 148, the fifth panel, c-c-c-c-c-could that be?!!!! Ryotsu from "Kochira Katsushika-ku Kameari Koen-mae Hashutsujo"?! Ryotsu, Ryotsu! It is! Why? But why? Why there? Is it a relative? Or what? He was transferred to the army from the police? What's the story? If you don't answer me, this is sexual harassment!
O:Yes. I got a whole mountain of letters about this. You are right, it is indeed Ryo-san from the ultra famous "Kochikame"! Last year, Kochikame forged the incredible streak of over 30 years in publication!! So in one issue, Jump ran a little contest in which Ryo-san appeared in all the stories in the magazine, and readers had to find him. I think the only reason they could get all the Jump authors in on such a feat is because of the immense respect and popularity Akimoto-sensei commands. Congratulations on 30 incredible years!!
D: If Lady Robin can use her Hana Hana Powers to make any part of her body sprout somewhere else, does that mean she can do it with her ample bosom as well? "Nyurin-zaki" (Breast Sprout) Boy, I'd like to take a hit from that sometime...
O:"Ichirin-zaki" (Single Sprout) "Nirin-zaki" (Double Sprout) "Nyurin-zaki" (Breast Sprout) Very clever!! NO IT'S NOT!! STOP THAT!! I'm sure she CAN do it though ♡
D: If Kokoro-sanis a mermaid, why is her grand daughter Chimneya normal human? Don't mermaids pass on genetic information?
O:Kokoro-san came here from Fish-Man Island out of her respect for Tom-san, when she was a young mermaid. She married a young human man from Water 7, their half-merman son married another human, and THEIR daughter was Chimney. Chimney is therefore 1/4 mermaid, so she's a very good swimmer. It was only her mermaid blood that helped such a little kid save Luffy in Chapter 403, Volume 42, as he drowned.
D: In Chapter 422, it said that Rob Lucci killed 500 hostages and took the captain's head. Why did he have to kill the 500 hostages?
O:I know, why? It's terrible. Why couldn't he just kill the bad guys? However, I had to shorten some things to make the pace move quicker. Lucci is a man who believes that "weakness is a sin". Therefore, if these soldiers were weak enough to be captured and expose the country to danger, they could do the same thing again in the future. So he arrived at the answer that these weak soldiers did not have the right to live, and took action accordingly. It's a hair-raising philosophy. Thanks for beating him, Luffy!!
D: Do all Devil Fruit have that swirly pattern on them?
O:That's right. It's what distinguishes them from other fruit. Sometimes I wonder if Sanji himself is a Devil Fruit.
D: In the Volume 4 SBS, you said that you read every single fan letter and postcard. Do you still do that, even now?
O:Yes, of course I do. However, to be honest, there was a time when I couldn't read them all. At that point, I was easily getting one to two thousand letters or postcards a week. At the time, I had to select a few hundred out of all of those, but lately the volume of mail has come down to a manageable level (the letters from girls have really dropped off since I got married *laugh*). So now I am once again reading all 100% of them. Looking at it now, I've been getting these letters of support week after week for 10 years, which is truly a wonderful thing. Thank you. I am truly kept afloat by my readers. There's a room in our office where we store the mail, and my staff is getting worried that the floor is going to give out in there.
D: Sorry this is so sudden, Oda-sensei. Luffy's favorite food is meat. What about everyone else on the crew? And you yourself, Oda-sensei???? Chapapapapaa!
O:These are their favorites!!
D: Hey, Odacchi! I got a question! About Devil Fruits!! If Kaku and Kalifa said they wouldn't know what their Devil Fruit were until they ate it, how come Shanks knew what Luffy's Gomu Gomu no Mi was before he ate it?? Tell me! Tell me now!! Pleeeease tell me!!!
O:Well, I think I'll eventually get to explaining more about Devil Fruits in the main story, but you see, there's a book of Devil Fruits. It has info about all kinds of fruit names and abilities, but few of the fruit can actually be identified by their shape. In the case of the Gomu Gomu no Mi, there was a picture and everything, but for Kaku and Kalifa, they were talking about how they wouldn't know until they had finally eaten the fruit. That was in Volume 40.
D: When reading the SBS, please make sure the room is well-lit and that you are not too close to the page. When finished reading, please close your eyes and move them up, down, left and right to give them some exercise. 
O:Aaack!! It's the usual "takeover squad"! Wait... huh? No... Oh! Now that I read closer... Such kind words. I'm sorry, I thought I was being screwed over once again! Thank you for thinking of everyone's health and well-being, Tada-san! There's plenty this volume to make up for last time, so here we go!! ST-START!! THE S-B-S...!! 
D: What should one do if Enel shot down lightning bolts?
O:First, guard yourself by ducking at light speed, then give him that golden right with a bit of rotation!! If you can't hit him, cover your bellybutton, cry and surrender!! He's tough, folks!!
D: Question for Oda-sensei! Tell us the ages of the members of CP9. Please, Shigan! (I'm sorry! Don't dodge, Sensei!)
O:Yow! ... whew, that was close. Good thing I dodged, wahaha!! You can't touch this!!
D: I have a question, Oda-sensei. What would happen if you picked your nose with Shigan? Please test out this query.
O:Okay. AAAAAAGGGGHHH!!!
D: I always love reading One Piece, Oda-sensei. By the way, about those 200 Marine HQ captains and commanders that fought the Straw Hats in Volume 44. One of them had a Devil Fruit ability that made him become like a bunch of balls, remember? What's the name of that fruit, and what is the ability, exactly? It showed up in the anime, but I didn't hear what it was. Also, I would like you to explain the "Sabi Sabi no Mi" that showed up in the same scene
O:Okay. Well, these abilities were all described in the fanbook called "One Piece Yellow", but for those of you who don't have it, I'll explain! There were three Devil Fruit users revealed in that battle scene. (Note: Beri stands for "berry", sabi means "to rust", and sharin means "wheel".)
D: What are those THINGS on Kokoro-san's chest, shells? Or an evolved form of scale? A NuBra?
O:Hmmm... ummmm... Oh!! I'm sorry, I was groaning without realizing it. This is quite a question. I suppose I can't just answer "I don't want to think about it"? All right, here's your answer. It's KIND of like a "NuBra". And you'd better believe that suction is bearing the fate of world peace! Hang in there, shell "NuBra"!!
D: To Oda-sensei. By the way, yeah. My question is, why does Chopper say, "I'm not interested in naked women", in Chapter 446(Volume 46)?! Your approximate age is 15, Chopper! Please ask him that for me, please
O:I see. Well, you might want to read it closer. He says, "I'm not interested in naked HUMAN women". He can speak human words, but he's still a reindeer! Which means, he can fall in love with a human because of his mind, but he won't be aroused by her looks. He just might be smitten with a really beautiful reindeer, though.
D: Hello, Oda-sensei!! I am TOTALLY in love with the new manly looks of Koby and Helmeppo in Volume 45!!!! They are so hot! Tell me their birthdays! How about May 13 for Koby(Ko = Go = 5, B looks like 13) and July 16 for Helmeppo(Nana-hikari musuko, aka "idiot son", Nana = 7 and hi+mu being 16)
O:Well... You answered your own question. Works for me.
D: Hello, Oda-sensei! ♡ (murmur murmur (outdoor sounds)) By the way, how do you respond to the charges that the Oda Clinic performed a full plastic surgery on Koby?! (hands two mics over) We'd like to get a comment from Koby, as well
O:He's hit his growth spurt! Haven't you ever seen a boy who comes back from summer vacation looking like a different person?! Boys grow in an instant, you know! He just tightened his muscles up a bit with some good discipline. Right, Koby?
D: Okay, so in Chapter 412, Volume 43,NamiripsKalifa's clothes in search of the key! And like, right in front of Franky! That's sexual harassment!! Who's going to want to marry her now?! Oda-sensei!! CAN I HAVE KALIFA
O:Ready, set... WHO SAYS YOU GET HER?!
D: Is it true that you're half-made of naughty?
O:Yep, that's right. I guess the other half would be stupidness. It's funny, there's really no worth to me being alive, but I'm pretty sure that if aliens invaded Earth and wiped out humanity, I would still be alive and well.
D: Oda-sensei!! My brother says that the order of the manga in Jump is decided by popularity. Is that true?
O:That's a fitting suspicion for a Jump reader. Since I get these fairly often, allow me to answer. To be precise, not quite. The order is decided every week by the Jump sub-chief editor. But it's true that the most popular series are placed in the front of the magazine. Also, sometimes he decides, we're pushing THIS one this week! I guess you could say it's the "order you could enjoy the magazine in". But of course, the only TRULY correct answer is to read it in the order YOU want.
D: Is Kalifa's Awa Awa no Mi really Paramecia, and not Logia type?
O: Kalifa creates bubbles with her body and still retains her normal body, so she's Paramecia. Rub her, and the bubbles come. Handy, isn't it?
D: My question is about the rich-looking young lady with the binoculars in Chapters436-437 from Volume 45! What exactly is she looking at?! I know Franky's a pervert, but I think SHE must be, too. I would like to know what she looks like, and what her name is. Good luck with your work!☆☆ 
O:I see... You found her. Then allow me to introduce the lady Marumieta("I can see all"). Her manservant beside her is Yamenahare("Now you stop that"). She is the only daughter of Bimine, the mayor of the "Gourmet Town", Pucci, which is connected to Water Seven via the Sea Express. This young woman is most ignorant of the ways of the world, and therefore quite the curious one! Having heard of the damage from the Aqua Laguna, she came here to deliver emergency supplies, and found herself witnessing the most extraordinary event!!
D: Wait a second!! Oda-sensei!! You know that scene in Volume 45, where Robin squeezes Franky in a very important place? CAN SHE FEEL WHAT SHE'S SQUEEZING? You simply MUST tell me!!
O:Yes, she can. All the arms and legs she sprouts are part of her body. She feels the things she touches, and when she's hurt, that damage is done to her own body. So you see... She really DID grab his balls!! Girls, NEVER DO THIS. They're very tender!!
D: What would Franky's Jolly Roger be?
O:Well, let's see. Since every crew member seems to need their own jolly roger, how about this?
D: Question for you!! Is the swordsman "Ryuma" who was once said to have defeated a dragon the very same Ryuma that starred in the short story "Monsters" from your collection volume entitled "Wanted!"? He is, isn't he? I'm so desperate to know, I can't brush my teeth. If I get a cavity, I'll tell the dentist it was your fault
O: "Wanted!" I'll tackle Ryuma's first. The zombie Ryuma appears in Chapter 450 from this volume, and he is indeed the Ryuma who starred in "Monsters". In the world of One Piece, he's now a legendary swordsman who died of sickness. I wouldn't have minded if this had just slipped through the cracks, but I was happy to see that so many people noticed. 
D: Oda-sensei! I've always wondered, aren't the Marine salutes kind of backward? I thought you saluted with the SIDE of your hand against the forehead! Explain please!
O:Oh, right. After all this time, I can't remember ever answering this one. Yes, it is a bit different than what you'd expect, but there's a reason. Sailors have pull all sorts of ropes on a sailboat to make sure it can sail, and the tar on the ropes makes their hands filthy and black. It would be rude to show those blackened hands to a superior officer, so they salute showing the back of the hand. It's the kind of courtesy you'd expect from the Marines.
D: Hello, Oda-sensei. I know you're busy watching Iitomo, but I hope you'll answer my question. What does it mean when people mention directions like 9 o'clock or 12 o'clock in your manga?
O:Well, just imagine a clock with you in the middle. 12 o'clock is right in front of you, 6 o'clock is right behind you. You just think of the ship the same way. There's no east west north south, you just use the directions you see.
D: Hello, Odacchi. OP started when I was in 1st grade, and has now reached its 10th anniversary. I've decided that I should step in and let you know how many panels you've drawn in 45 volumes! After a two-month investigation, I've found the result is 40,971panels!! Round of applause! *silence* ...W-well, keep reaching for 100,000. I'll check in again when you hit 500 chapters. Bye-bye baby, shap babaloobap badap bam boom bang crash thud!
O:You really counted them~. So, I've drawn 40,000 panels. Hmmm. It doesn't hit home. But I appreciate your effort! Thanks a lot!! See you next volume!!
D: Tell us Fire Fist Ace's height and weight! Personally I think January 1 would be great for his birthday! What do you say?!
O:Yeah, since an ace is worth one in cards. That works. He'd be about 185 cm tall.
D: Question for Oda-sensei, chapa! Is Captain T Bonea General Zombie? Or is he just another boney man like our friend Brook?
O:Ooh, good question. Well, if you want to solve this by a process of elimination, he's not a Wild (animal) Zombie, and he's not a Surprise Zombie. Soldier Zombies are those without weapons, but since Captain T Bone is armed, that would mean that, as you say, he is a General Zombie. (NOTE: ACTUALLY A HUMAN.)
D: Hello, Oda-sensei!! This is the first time I've ever sent you a letter! On p. 161 of Volume 46, the chapter titled "Moria", there is a zombie with the number 767. And yet, on p. 173 of the chapter titled "The Mysterious Four of Thriller Bark", the zombie in Hogback's lab says 741. Why is that? Did you... MAKE A MISTAKE?! Give me a serious answer!!P.N. Snowdrop from the Drum Kingdom
O: You really pay attention to detail! So what you're asking is, why is the zombie just being created given a lower number? As a matter of fact, it makes perfect sense. This is because zombies get purified all the time, leaving empty numbers behind. Since zombies are constantly being lost when their shadow owners die, intruders purify them with salt, or Moria simply uses them like disposable pawns, the newer zombies must be created to fill those holes in the numbering order. So it is quite often that zombies with lower numbers are created. You also might be interested, though it's of no real consequence, to learn these specific number ranges. The zombie army is maintained by filling in the empty ranks according to this chart.
D: Sensei! When Absalom says "Being mean to Kumashi must fill you with ecstasy. Ecsmacy?" and "So cruel to Hogback. Cruelback." Is that just because he likes bad jokes?
O:YES. EVEN HIS SENSE OF HUMOR IS INVISIBLE!!
D: Hello, Odacchi. I'm a high school senior re-reading Volume 47. About Ab-sama's wild and cute mouthy mouth, did that belong to the lion Nami saw from the carriage in Volume 46?! Did they switch faces?! Like plastic surgery?! I guess that chin of his must have had some mental complex that kept him from getting married! Let me hear the truth from YOUR mouth, now.
O:I see, so you noticed that... I'm afraid I will keep my mouth shut, however. Yes, it is true that that lion's muzzle was transplanted to Absalom's face by Hogback. However, there's no proof that the human mouth the lion has originally came from Absalom. There might be a different zombie with the same scars. I'm keeping my mouth shut, for the few Absalom fans out there.
D:Mr. 4's gun "Lassoo" had the "Inu Inu no Mi, Model: Dachshund". CP9's Jabra had the "Inu Inu no Mi, Model: Wolf". So the Devil Fruits don't have the same type twice, but they CAN have different models?
O:In the case of Zoan-types, a different "model" is basically a different fruit. Just like those Inu Inu no Mi examples, there's also the Ushi Ushi no Mi, Model: Bison(Dalton) and Model Giraffe(Kaku). Just think of them as entirely different fruits.
D: Excuse me!! May I pose a serious question to the typically-vulgar SBS?? In Volume 46, Usopp said that the same power doesn't exist twice. But this doesn't make sense with what you said in the Volume 45 SBS... If theGomu Gomu no Mi was in a book of fruits, then Luffy HAD to have eaten at least the SECOND known example of the fruit! Now, most beautiful and intelligent Ei-chan, explain it all! 
O:Very sharp of you. But I'm cool. I haven't made any mistakes. As a hint, let me rephrase what Usopp is saying. "The same powers don't exist twice AT THE SAME TIME". How's that? For more detail, you'll just have to wait for a certain professor to make his appearance in the story, and explain exactly what the Devil Fruits REALLY are... Eventually.
D: My entire family is a huuuuge fan of One Piece, and we all follow it faithfully. Now, my question is this: in Volume 48,Chapter 460, Robin called Nami "Nami-chan". But before she had always called her "Navigator"!! Has Robin had a change of heart?! Please tell me. By the way, my mom's morning hair looks JUST like Brook's!!
O:Your mom looks like Brook... THAT'S AMAZING!! Gotta love the funk. Now, about Robin. I've noticed that a lot of readers picked up on this, which makes me very happy. In Chapter 475 of this volume, Robin says "Are you all right, Nami?!" It appears she'll be calling her "Nami" from now on. She also started referring to the other members by name. Perhaps this is a consequence of Robin truly opening her heart to her friends and crewmates after the events of Enies Lobby. Despite the huge size of this story, I still hope to depict the little, human things, like this.
D: This is my first letter (okay, postcard)! Here's my question. In Hogback's flashback scene in Chapter 468, is that stuffed animal Perona's holding actually Kumashi?!! If so, how did he get to be so freakin' huge?? I have a question about Thriller Bark's super-super cute Perona! In the cover page serial that ran around the Skypiea arc, entitled "Wapol's Omnivorous Hurrah", he used his Baku Baku no Miability to create a toy called "KABASHINSHI" (Hippo Gentleman). Does this have anything to do with the Hippo Gentle man that answers to Perona? Is Perona a fan of Wapol's toys?
O:I've got two questions here. Very well spotted, in both cases. First, the Kumashi plushie. He did not grow up to be that size. Perona simply likes having Hogback create zombies based on her plushies. She got Wapol's "KABASHINSHI" somewhere along the way, so it's quite likely that she had Hogback create his own version for her.
D: Oda-sensei, here's a very serious question. If Shanks was a deck hand on Gold Roger's ship, does that mean the guy who hit him and Buggy when they were fighting in Volume 3 was the captain of the ship? Or maybe an officer?
O:Ah yes, the story of Buggy and Shanks in their swabby days. That would mean the captain of their ship was none other than the Pirate King, Gold Roger. The man who scolded the two boys was the first mate. I've had that set in stone since the very start, so I even made sure the anime staff knew that.
D: Oda-sensei, hello!! Here's my question. Oars might be very big, but is he a giant?? If he IS a giant, does that mean he's from Elbaph? Explain the background, here!
O:You know how there's always one REALLY BIG guy in your class? Oars is a giant, but he's even huger than normal, among them. He's not a warrior of Elbaph. There are multiple islands around the world with giants living on them. He's just a big huge, evil giant from one of those islands. That's Oars!
D: Wouldn't Franky be cold dressed the way he is, in Chopper's movie (Blooming in Winter, the Miraculous Sakura)?
O:Hmm. You thought that, based on the images in the movie? I was wondering about this when I heard the anime staff's setting plan. It does seem cold, but do you use that as a chance for humor, or let it slide? After mulling it over, I had my answer. It doesn't matter if he's cold or not; he's FRANKY!! It's how WEIRD he is that's important!! So here's my answer: "Yes, that outfit's chilly." * Even cyborgs get cold.
D: Question! "Whitebeard Edward Newgate", "Blackbeard Marshall D. Teach", "4th Squad Commander Thatch". These three all appear to be based off the real-life 18th century Caribbean pirate, Edward Teach(or sometimes Edward Thatch), aka "Blackbeard". Can you tell us more about this figure?
O:All three, yes. As a matter of fact, Whitebeard and Thatch just take his name, but Blackbeard himself is completely modeled after the man. The real-life pirate called Blackbeard had many names, and one of them was "Thatch". He also went by "Drummond" and "Thache". He would braid his very long black beard and light smoking wicks hanging from his hat, and with the six pistols and three swords he bore, must have been the very figure of the Devil in battle. Countless stories exist of him shooting his own crew to teach them a lesson, and so on. There are legends that he hid a great treasure, but it has never been found. Now's your chance!
D: I've made a great discovery!! Despite being in a test... I managed to reread One Piece Volumes 1-48!! And my discovery was... In "The Highest Authority in the World", Chapter 233 of Volume 25, Buggy and his crew are searching for Captain John's treasure in a cave. And then in "Perona's Wonder Garden", Chapter 451 of  Volume 47, there's Captain John again! Is this a super-huge discovery, or what?! Who IS Captain John? Just how cruel was he? Tell us, Ei-chaan!!
O:Yes, you've found it. Well spotted. The man whose treasure Buggy and crew were searching for had become a zombie at Thriller Bark. Look close at Captain John's stomach. He has several slashes in his belly, and two swords sticking right out. These were the marks left when his crew killed him for keeping the treasure a secret from them. John died, and the location of the treasure became a legend, lost forever.
D: In Chapter 462, "Oars' Adventure", Brook and Ryuma had a duel. That form was very much like fencing! I could certainly tell, because I took fencing when I was in high school. And, reading further, the words coup droit, bond avant, remise... these are all fencing terms! I love fencing, so this was really great to see! So Brook is a fencer, then! That slender form is simply perfect for the style! (I die if I can't wear a mask!!)P.N. G-chan
O:That's right, he's a fencer!! (So that's what you call it...) He's a fencer, folks!! You heard it here, people... Brook is a fencer!! And thus, the SBS has fensed!! I mean, ended! See you next volume!!
D: Oda-T, good mornoon!! Sensei! I have a proposal for you. You know the little art that always appears at the top of the SBS Corner? I've noticed that the characters seem to be catching up to the main story! Might that not be causing trouble for you?! That might just be my personal opinion... But I was thinking, why not have a special part of the Usopp Gallery Pirates for SBS title art submissions, with the grand prize winner being used in the corner itself?
O:I see. SURE! Actually, many people have sent illustrations in for this very purpose, but the sizes weren't quite right. However, if you want to do them right, that saves me some time, so SURE! I'll accept them now. I hope you pick out old characters we can look back on fondly. Otherwise, well, just knock yourselves out. On the other hand, when I WANT to draw it, I'll still draw it.
D: I think sailing these days is a lot better and the ships are built nicer, but what about in the olden days? Where would they flush the poop? Like, just send it to heaven, straight into the sea?
O:Ah, yes. On sailing ships, it was normal that there would just be a hole on the deck that you would deposit waste into. The hole would run down into the water beneath the boat. There are much fewer sailboats now than there were in the past, and the ones being built today will of course have flushing toilets, the type like on airplanes that go "whoosh!" when you flush them. Imagine the Sunny  has that, too. However, the dudes like to dispose of their waste in various creative ways.
D: This is my first postcard. On the third panel of p. 107 in Volume 49,Chapter 475, there are guys saying they're the Risky Brothers! Also, the zombie who tried to take Nami's group to Moria (V.47, C.451) was one of the Risky Brothers, too, wasn't he?
O:Yes, that's right. Those cute lil' squirrels were being moved by the shadows of some crusty, greasy men.
D: Hello, Oda-sensei! I've been thinking about Brook's birthday! Since he has the Yomi Yomi no Mi, why not use yo-mi (4-3) to make April 3 his birthday?!
O:Okay, that's settled.
D: Oda-senseeei! Look this waaay! Boobs Attack! Boinggg.
O:Wheee! What paradise! KNOCK IT OFF!!! Jeez, you guys!! Stop ruining the sanctity of the SBS!! Huff, huff...
D: Oda-sensei, you always avoid the readers' "Shigans" and such by using "Soru"! Did you use to be in CP9? I'm so curious, I can't spend my allowance yet!
O:Am I busted? Oh, well... I guess there's no hiding it, then. Yes, I was once a member of CP9.Lucci's CP9 is "Cipher Pol No. 9," but in my case, CP9 was "Cadet Panties: 9 - pairs" I mean, they're basically the same thing.
D: In Volume 47-48, who changed Nami into the wedding dress? It wasn't that old zombie dude with the measuring tape in Chapter 458, was it? Because that would be terrible. He must have seen her naked when he was changing her outfit! What a disgusting zombie! from Ariga-san
O:Duhh................................... Oh!! Damn! I totally went into a daydream just now. Who could have done that?! It's just filthy. Duhh....................
D: Here's my question: on p. 80 of Volume 42,Sanjisays "I was raised to never kick a woman." Would that have been a lesson from Zeff the Chef? Would that mean Zeff is very soft on women, as well? Tell me.
O:Oops, this one's from the same person as the last one. This is a good question though, so I'll answer it. When I drew Sanji vs Kalifa(Chapter 403), some people lauded Sanji's stance, and some people felt sorry for him. The truth is, I didn't really want to write those lines. Sanji doesn't have a "policy" of not kicking women; the truth is that he actually CAN'T kick them. He is a very proud man. I think he was really frustrated at that. think Nami recognized that, and chose to praise him for once. It's a scene that I hope will resonate with male readers, but everyone's free to take it as they wish. Also, Zeff is just a man among men.
D: Please put out a CD of "Binks' Sake". Where it says "Lyrics by Eiichiro Oda."
O:Right. Maybe Binks' Sake WILL come out sometime. That chant was actually fully written by the very first time Brook appeared in the story. In fact, this is a great time to explain that I went to the great anime authority Kohei Tanaka-san to write the music for me ahead of time, because when it came around to the anime, I didn't want the lyrics I wrote to mess up the guys who had to turn that song into music. I told him, "I'm going to do Thriller Barkin a year or so," and it only took what, like four or five years? Ha ha. Well, it took an hour or so, but he managed to make the lyrics from Chapter 488(The Song of Life) match up. At first, it had a frightening sound, but by changing the performance, it became funny. Therefore, Thriller Bark owes a great debt to the incredible Kohei "Genius" Tanaka. Hope you like the anime! I was actually hoping to get the song in school textbooks, but since it had "sake" in it, I had to give up on that. I hope you all sing it, just the same. 
D: Oda-sensei! Dos Fleur!! Grasp!! Squeeze!! ...I've got a hold on you. Now, you may start the SBS
O:HODYAAAAAA!!!! S-st...art...the...S... HODYAAAAAAA...
D: Are Kizaru and Akainu stronger even than Aokiji?
O:Hahh, hahh... Sorry for the late introduction. Hello. I'm the author, who got his Balls Flattened by a Reader... you can call me Balltender. But who cares! Here's a question...YIKES!! What the hell is THIS?! Kizaru?! Get outta here! I'm gonna have nightmares!, Kizaru's already appeared! He'll show up in the next volume. Actually, you're not that far off, though.
D: Umm, this is my first postcard. It was love at first sight when Brook came into the story. Please tell me what his age and height are!
O:I'll tell you. He was 38 when he died 50 years ago, so he'd be 88 now. He's 2 m 66 cm, and he also wears a hat that bumps him another 20 cm. He's quite a tall fellow.
D: Greetings, Odacchi! Here's a question. Around Volume 46, Brook said something about "if only my tears hadn't dried up", but in Volume 50, he's cryin' his eyes out! Why is that?
O:Because even when his tears of sadness dry... his tears of joy can still flow. Why is that? Because people are kind. Okay. Next question. (Dandy, low-pitched voice)
D: Odacchi!! Hello! I'm a fresh young 14-year-old girl! I have a question for you, my beloved mentor! You know about yoji-jukugo, those four-character sayings? (You do, right?) What would you use to describe Luffy's pirate crew? Ishindenshin (communion of minds, telepathy)? Junintoiro (different strokes for different folks)? ...Oh!!! Is it yakiniku teishoku (yakiniku set meal)???
O:Do I know... yoji-jukugo? Do I know them... DO I KNOW THEM??!! YES!! My favorites are "Snake & Crane", "Shaolin Soccer", and "Black Oolong Tea". Now, if I were to describe the Straw Hat Crew with a yoji-jukugo, I'd say... Zendai mimon (unprecedented, unheard of) would do it. That one came up in Enies Lobby. I hope they'll always be the crew that's breaking the mold.
D: What's the third-most important thing on a voyage after food? Laundry. Who does it? Nami doesn't seem likely (sorry). If Sanji did it... he might ***** with the ladies' panties. Aaagh!
O:Laundry, huh? Well, to avoid the kind of situation we can all imagine, the boys and girls split the task. Nami and Robin take turns doing their laundry everyday. Apparently all seven men have a huge cleaning extravaganza once a week. I guess this works out for them, since they rarely change outfits anyway. Right, Chopper? C: Yeah, everyone stinks! We're all dirty!
D: How can Cap'n Lola have been turned down 4,444 times, when she's so cool and awesome? What's the reason?
O:Well, she makes a very strong impact... and she's too aggressive. Don't worry, I bet she'll be happy (in her own way).
D: Hello, Oda-sensei. In Chapter 490 of Volume 50, there is a "round rainbow". I saw one of them at school recently. What are they made of? Please explain GRACEFULLY. Heh heh.
O:That's incredible. It's impossible to see circle rainbows unless a very specific set of coincidences occur. Now, to start, I realize I only put it into one little panel, but they honestly do exist. By which I mean, rainbows ARE circles. Fig. 1: Rainbows (Sun), Water Screen, Reflection of 42 degrees! Fig. 2: This might be hard to understand in the picture, but a rainbow is formed when light from the sun is refracted through water droplets into bands of color. Unless the three elements to the left (sun, water, human) are placed exactly in the circumstances shown, you can't see a rainbow. The angle that light refracts into colors of visible light is at 42 degrees. Because humans are standing on the ground, the lower half of the circle is blocked by the horizon. Therefore, seeing a rainbow in the sky above from sea would be nearly impossible on Earth, but since this was the Grand Line, I figured maybe it would happen. When I was talking to a mangaka friend of mine, he said he saw a round rainbow while flying on a plane, so according to theory, it should work if you're in the air. I suppose you might even see one from the roof of your school. Hey, what is this, a science textbook?! Don't worry, folks, we're returning you to your normally scheduled dumb manga, One Piece! Don't change the channel!!
D: Odacchi, Odacchi! Is your uncle a taxi driver? When I went to Kyoto, I got a One Piece poster and a copy of the original art from the Volume 6 cover from him! This is so fascinating to me, I can't get my exam studies done! Thanx
O:Yep, that sounds like none other than my uncle. He tells, me, "Ei-chan, yer uncle's always pitchin' yer story to his customers!" He went so overboard, the company told him to tone it down, but I'm sure he's still driving around Kyoto, telling people about me. If you happen to ride with him, say hello.
D: Is the Thriller Bark story inspired by things like The Addams Family and The Nightmare Before Christmas? I love the atmosphere in those films.
O:Yes, the films. I love them too. In order to draw Thriller Bark, I even watched a lot of zombie movies, which I've never really done before. By my nature, I don't like scary things, so even though I put a lot more black into the art, I still tried to make silly, funny zombies. When artists draw about ghosts and dead people and things that aren't meant for polite society, they always go to the shrine to pray beforehand... as did I. I mean, I don't want to get cursed or anything.
D: Oda-sensei, I'd like to inform you of something! The skull and crossbones design for Franky differs between Volume 47, p. 166, and the pamphlet for the movie, "Episode of Chopper."
O:Busted? I noticed that afterward. Before I drew it for the volume, Toei Anime came to me and said, "We drew a symbol for Franky, is this good?" and I said, "Sure it is!" and then completely forgot about it, so we wound up with two. And hey, they're both Franky's, to be sure. Why can't he have two symbols?
D: Konnichiwa, Oda-sensei! I've got a question for the guy that's kept me on the edge of my seat for the last ten years! In Chapter 501, "As the World Begins to Roil", there's a spot on the human market price list right below Merfolk that says "Female, 2-legged". Does that mean they sell mermaids that are in relationships with two men at once? I'm so flustered I can't even find a girlfriend.by Kinta
O:That's right. Prices drop on those slutty mermaids that string two guys along at once! Are... you... KIDDIN' ME!! As Kokoro-san explained in Chapter 424, Volume 44, "the tailfin splits into two legs around age 30, and they become able to live on land after that". That says it all. Basically, young mermaids like Camie sell for higher prices, is all. For further questions about mermaids, I plan to explain more about them in the story ahead.