This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 4.
O: Now, regarding the SBS corner announced in Volume 2. Thank you all so much for sending in so many letters.Let's answer them right away, labeling readers' questions (and opinions not necessarily limited to questions) as 'D' (Dokusha (Reader)), and my answers as 'O' (Oda). I'll respond to the collected letters and postcards randomly as I receive them.
D: How old areLuffy,Zoro,Nami, andShanks, respectively?
O:Ages, huh? This question came up a lot. Like, awholelot. In terms of sheer volume, I bet this was the #1 question! Let's answer! Currently, Luffy is 17, Zoro is 19, and Nami is 18. As for Shanks, since I don't know where he is now, I'll give his age from 10 years ago. He was 27 when he was inLuffy's village. Oh, andUsoppis also 17, same as Luffy.
D: Why are all the villains just way too sketchy?
O:Huh… Sketchy…? Well, now that you mention it, they are pretty shady. But y'know what? I think that sketchiness is actually mystery. They've got a certain charm, don't you think?
D: Eiichiro Oda-sensei, is it true your arms and legs can stretch? It's written in "Jump", but…
O:Whoa! It should say right there that it's a secret.
D: A question for Oda-sensei: What do you do with the things you receive from fans?
O:They're in my room. All of them. By the way, every single letter and postcard I've ever gotten? I've read them all, not a single one missed. They honestly give me so much energy. I'm not exaggerating when I say these are why I can keep working as a mangaka. Thank you everyone.
D: About the origin or inspiration for Zoro's name, isn't it based on the pirate "François l'Olonnais"?'
O:That's correct. I took the name from François l'Olonnais, who's reputed to be the cruelest of the so-called 'Caribbean pirates.' And "Morgan" and "Alvida", both of them are also real historical pirate names.
D: About Captain 'Clown'Buggy! Are those things sticking out from both sides of his hat, Captain Buggy's real hair? Or are they just decorations (a wig)? I'm dying to know! But if it's real hair… Captain Buggy's got some long hair, huh…?
O:Yep. This question also popped up a ton. Let me just show you already.
Translation (left to right): "Die flashily", "Hey, give me my flashy hat back", "Yes, it's my real hair."
D: Why does Luffy have absolutely no 'sense of tension' whatsoever?
O:That's definitely because the guy's a total idiot. Huhuhu.
D: Luffy's treasure is his straw hat. So, is your treasure also a straw hat, sensei? If not, tell me~~!!
O:My treasure? Ah, of course, it'sALL OF YOU, MY READERS!
D: Why isMohji's hair styled like that?
O:He was just born that way. Only those two patches grow long easily. Leave them unattended, and he’d look like a rabbit.
Translation (left to right): "How it is now; What?", "Then it becomes like this; Do you need anything?Hop", "And then; What the hell?Roar"
D: I came up with a new move for Luffy! Step 1: He uses 'Rubber-Rubber Balloon' to inflate his belly. Step 2: Then, he stabs a hole in him with 'Rubber-Rubber Pistol' (or Zoro's sword, if you prefer). Step 3: A BIG EXPLOSION!! The name will be 'Rubber-Rubber 'Explosion' '!!
O:Thanks for thinking about it! But, Luffy would die, y'know? He would.
D: How far can Luffy's arms stretch?  Please tell me.
O:They stretch quite a bit. Right now they stretch about 72 Gomu Gomus. Luffy said the other day that he wants to be able to stretch them to 100 Gomu Gomus.
D: Nice to meet you. Thanks to you, Oda-sensei, I was able to successfully enroll in high school. Thank you very much.
O:Yeah....................................................... Huh?!
D: How did you come up with the characters' names?
O:The names are... well, they just seem to come off as nice names. Sometimes they're taken from real pirates, and sometimes they're not.
D: Why does Luffy always refuse to kill his enemies? When reading the manga, he didn't killMohji, and he also didn't killHelmeppoor CaptainMorgan. Morgan was killed by Zoro, but why?
O:Ah, that's a good question. First of all, Morgan is still alive. Right now, he is in prison thanks to his former subordinates. Why not kill him? In this era, people are risking their lives for their beliefs and fighting for them. Luffy is shattering his enemies' beliefs in battle. For enemies, having their beliefs crushed and being defeated is equivalent to experiencing pain as if they were dead. I believe, the question of whether to kill or not is secondary; winning or losing is what matters to those pirates.
D: So, Sensei, do you like animals? I have this feeling that in each cover art, there's always at least one animal...
O:Indeed, there are animals on the cover arts. While it's true that I like them, I think my level of affection for them is 'average'. I just enjoy drawing animals. There's something fun about capturing that fluffy feeling. In particular, I like pandas who look comically funny by nature, and wombats who seem like they could be on a wanted poster. Oh, and I also like the expression on owls that look like they were shot at with a gun.
D: Is the poop-like pattern onKlahadore's suit literally poop, or does it have some other meaning...?
O:It's poop.
D: I have a question. What are Nami's three sizes? Please tell me, seriously.
O:I see. That's serious, really. Alright, I understand. This is something I don't know yet, so I think I will go measure it from now on! Well then! I'm off!! Aah!!
Nami:Huh?! My three sizes?!
O:Ah, you scared me... You're here just in time, Nami. Well then, let's get started! Here we go... *POW* Owww!!
Nami:Okay, you can measure me, but... it's expensive, you know?
O:Huh...? How much...? What!? That much?! Can I even pay that amount?! *glint* Now!! Right away!! *SMACK WHACK!!* Owww!!
Nami:If you don't have the money, there's no point in talking to me! Make sure to bring enough next time! ♥ See you! ♥
O:D......damn it! W...what a shame!! B...but! I will definitely measure her someday!! Be patient, young man! I will keep my promise!!
D: I got a question~♡ Why does Zoro always wear an uncle-likeharamaki? Please tell me.
O:How rude!! You there, sit down there for a moment!!! Now listen up! Remember well that the haramaki is Japan's pride as the strongest warm clothing and a nice fit fashion piece for fighters!!! Reflect on that! You can go home!
D: Who exactly is "Mikio Itoo", a character common to the three manga "One Piece", 'Butsu Zone,' and 'Rurouni Kenshin'? It was not clarified in 'Butsu Zone' either, so I would really like to know.
D: I'll make it simple! Who is "Mikio Itoo"? I want to know. I found his images in Volume 1, pages 14 (frame 3, behind the Vice-Captain), 16 (frame 1, on the bottle) and 86 (frame 2, behind Luffy), and Volume 2, page 3 (in the corner, next to Zoro!). I keep finding the name! Are we suppose to guess who it is? Please tell me the answer. Who is he?
O:You guys found them? All of them? There really is someone with the name  "Mikio Itoo". He's in"Butsu Zone"(now in Jump Magazine's "Shaman King", it's a "Sandan Takei" (aka Takei Hiroyuki) manga), and in "Ruroken" (Rurouni Kenshin) he also appeared as a traveler. All the"Mikio Itoo"in all 3 mangas are indeed the same person. If you ask me who he is, all I can say is that he fought many battles along with his friend throught out the desert, and his sharp shooting saved him and his friend many times. Soon in the future, he'll make an appearance in front of everyone.
D: Ei-chan, please give us your vital statistics! (Is that your real name?)
O:It's my real name. So, um... I was born on January 1, 1975. I'm a Capricorn, blood type A, year of the rabbit, and I like movies. I'm trying to do my best.
D: This is a question for Oda-sensei. When did you decide to be a manga artist? And what kinds of things did you do to become a manga artist? Please tell me.
O:First of all, I decided to become a manga artist when I was four years old. The instant I learned that such a job existed in this world, I thought, "I don't have to work when I grow up!" and made the decision. But it was in about 8th grade that I started drawing seriously. What kinds of things? Doodles and such. Even now, I doodle in my sketch pad as I think of stories.
D: This is a hardcore fan question, but in Masaya Tokuhiro'sWatery Friend: KappamanVolume 1, Page 93, Panel 4, why is "Eiichiro Oda" written there? Were you working on it as an assistant or something?
O:Whoa, scary! You noticed. Yes, I was an assistant. My history as an assistant manga artist includes work on Shinobu Kaitani-sensei'sMidoriyama Police Gang, Masaya Tokuhiro-sensei'sJungle King Tar-chanandKappaman, and Nobuhiro Watsuki-sensei'sRurouni Kenshin. I learned many things from those three. Seriously, I respect them all as manga artists and as people.
D: How many "Devil Fruit" are there? And, what kind of fruit are they?
O:If you want to know what they are, please just continue reading my manga. How many are there? From the rumors I've heard, there are over 100. And many people with the special abilities are at "that place".
Eight requests from readers and the announcement of "Usopp Gallery Pirates".
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 5.
No SBS. Oda gave information about the firstOVA.
O:Hello. I might as well start the SBS corner now. Stand! Be careful!! Okay, stay there!!
D: I have an inquiry, Sensei. Doesn't the first mate onShanks' ship have a name? And also the meat guy.
O:Take your seat. Of course he has a name. At first he was "Shofukutei Nezumi", because his face kind of looks like a mouse. That's whatUsoppsaid. He was lying. His real name is "Benn Beckman". And the meat-eating fat guy's name is "Lucky Roux". There's really no need to remember something like that, but since I got asked enough, I might as well clear it up.
D: I have a question. I always see the sound effect "donnnn" (ta-dah!) inOne Piece, but why "donnnn"? I think "babinnnn" would work just as well.
O:No. No good. No good at all. I use "donnnn" when I draw scenes to give them that "donnnn" kind of feeling, so if I drew in "babinnnn" it would give the picture a "babinnnn" feeling. But, maybe in a gag scene or something. Like "ufunnnn" (giggle).
That's different.
D: Nice to meet you, Oda-sensei! I love the manga you draw, "Nep Ece"
O:RRRRRRGH! DAMN!! ...I love it when boys and girls misread and omit the letters like that. Makes me wonder if anyone can read those weird letters. I'm sorry for making the "O" and "I" in the title logo pictures and not simple letters. It's correctly spelled "One Piece". Remember that if you have the time.
D: What does the "Möwe" written onMorgan's chin mean?
O:It's a German word. It means "seagull". The pronunciation is kind of like "Mehve". He really is a sailor, isn't he?
D: You know, with Zoro'sThree Sword Style, I don't think he'd be able to talk with the sword in his mouth... Could it be... ventriloquism?
O:IT'S HIS HEART SPEAKING.
D: You don't seem to use much tone. Is there a reason?
O:Well, it takes forever to start affixing the tone. It takes a lot of time (and it's a pain in the--)... My policy is, if you can only do partial tone, it's better just to make it black and white. That's my policy.
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 6.
D: Oda-sensei! One... Two... Jango!!!
O:ZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ... Ah!! Good morning!!
D: A while ago, a kid from around here asked me, "Where can I go to meet Luffy?". Where can I go to meet Luffy? The North Sea? The Mediterranean Sea? The Tone River? Lake Biwa?
O:Hmmmm... It's hard to say where to go in order to meet him. I suppose if you just set off on a relaxing voyage you might find him. But Buggy and the others are out there too, so please be careful. Please.
D: Ummmm, about "1, 2,Jango'"': what's that striped thing on his chin?
O:A mushroom. Before he ever became a pirate, he was a "wandering dancer". But business wasn't so good, so all he did was sleep. Without even taking a bath. And eventually a striped mushroom grew from his chin. Since he was so hungry, he tried eating the cap of the mushroom, but it was disgusting! But he gulped it down anyways, and somehow became able to hypnotize people. Therefore, the striped thing on his chin is a "leftover mushroom".
D: Hold on a minute, is Gaimon-san my father? (I checked with the Ministry of Education)
O:Ahh! Damn, you found out... You checked with the Ministry of Education... So that's how you found out... Gaimon-san was told to keep his mouth shut about this, but... Looks like we can't hide it anymore. Very well! Go see him! That's right, you are Gaimon-san's son! Go and jump into Gaimon-san's heart! Jump with all your strength! And while you're at it, go jump in the sea and cool your head off! You bastard!
D: When I told my friend "Buggy is sooooo cute ♥", she took a step back and called me a "weirdo"! Am I weird?
O:You're weird!! ... But I like Buggy too. And I'm not weird, am I? ...I'm special. I'm a special exception.
D: I have a request ♥ Please give me Gaimon-san ♥
O:Here you go. Oh... You should check with his son first, though.
D: When an artist is drawing Chapter 10, for example, what chapter is being printed in the newestWeekly Jump?
O:I see. I wondered about this myself, years ago. So I understand your curiosity. At this EXACT moment, Issue 46 of Jump is hitting the stands. It containsOne Piece Chapter 60, "Solution". But I have finished the drafts up throughChapter 63, "I Ain't Gonna Die". So a chapter comes out roughly 3 weeks after I finish it. But that's only myCURRENT schedule. The people doing these weekly serials aren't actually all the same. I could change if need be. There are various cases.
D: What happened to the keyChouchouswallowed in Volume 2?
O:It came out. Shiny and brown.
D: When I was reading theVolume 4's SBS, you said that Luffy's arm could stretch about 72 Gomu Gomus, but I was wondering, just how many meters is 1 "Gomu Gomu"? (I checked with the Ministry of Education)
O:Oh, you again! Gaimon-san's son. And you looked at the Ministery of Education again... Meters, well...You can't put it those terms, you see? 1 "Gomu Gomu" is about 10 "Fairy Tale Gomu Gomus". 1 "Fairy Tale Gomu Gomu" is about 10 "Funky Gomu Gomus", so Luffy's arm can stretch about 7200 "Funky Gomu Gomus". Got it?
D: Where are you from, Sensei? It wasn't in yourVolume 4profile.
O:From Kumamoto. From Kyushu. From a wonderful place.
D: Why don'tLuffyandZorogo by the names "Monkey" or "Roronoa"? Or are those their family names, the Japanese way?
O:Yes. That's it. First family name. Then personal name.
D: Is there a mirror onAlvida's ship?
O:Whoa! Hey, hey... She's gonna throw that club at me! Don't ask me! Man, what a dangerous question. Something tells me there is no mirror. DONK!!! Whoa, she threw something!!
D: When you readOne Piece, some mysterious characters show up from time to time. Like, in One Piece Volume 5, p. 182, in the third panel, there's an odd guy in the back. Who is he? I'm so interested, I'm not brushing my teeth.
O:No, brush your teeth. Dentists are scary. So... you found him. He is a wrestler named "Pandaman". I will introduce him to you some time later.
D: I know there's theGomu Gomu no Mi, theBara Bara no Mi, and all those other devil fruit, but let me tell you the one I thought up. It's called theGero Gero no Mi(Barf Barf Fruit). The power makes it so you're always vomiting, so no one ever comes near you. Verrrrrrrry useful.
O:You eat it.
D: I noticed that you've never (I think) drawn Buggy-kun with his mouth closed. I want to see what his lips look like when they are shut.
D: When the question came up aboutNami's three sizes (Bust-Waist-Hip) you said "I promise!!". So when are you going to tell us?!!
O:Hehe. I have a friend that comes in quite handy for this. His eye is quite accurate. It's that "weirdchef", who can tell a girl's three sizes with just one look,Sanji-san!!
Sanji:Shitty guy! I ain't "weird"!! It's "love", I'm a "cook in love"!! Ah well, thanks for calling me. Just leave this stuff to me. Nami-san is so cute. And her style is right on. Now, let's take a look...B 86!W 57!H 86! No doubt about it!! She's so cuuuuute. Damn, she's a thief though. But I still love her!!
O:I kept my promise. Thank you Sanji! *crack!* Owwwww!
Nami:What do you think you're doing?
O:Ahh! Nami! Crap. Was I wrong?
Nami:No, you got it right. Oh well, it's nothing to worry about. Bye. *walking quickly*
O:...Whoa!! Damn!! My wallet's gone!! Awwwwww.
D: Were there really woman pirates?
O:Yes, there were. But it was considered bad luck to bring a woman on board a ship in those days, and so many of them disguised themselves as men. There were two woman pirates,Mary ReadandAnne Bonny, who were said to have fought more bravely than any man. By the way, my characterAlvidawas based on a female pirate namedAwilda(or Alvida) who formed a pirate crew comprised entirely of women.

D: In an older manga called "Oni ga Kitarite" (by Shingagin-sensei) the second panel on p. 16 of the first volume could only have been drawn by you, Oda-sensei. Were you an assistant there?
O:I can't endure any more of these letters, so I'll go ahead and clear up this matter all at once.Hiroyuki Takei,Shinga Gin,Mikio Itoand I were all assistants for "Rurouni Kenshin". So when my friend "Gagin" got his own series, I gave him a bit of help. Also worth mentioning isShinya Suzuki, who just had his debut published, and was an assistant for Rurouni Kenshin, as well as an occasional helper with One Piece. And that's the connection between all of us. OK?

D: When I went to the barber a little while ago and asked for a "Zoro haircut", he shaved my head. What should I say to get a haircut like Zoro's?
O:Ask for the cut of a"MAN'S HEART AND SPIRIT."

D: InChapter 37, is the man who captured thefake "Kuro of a Hundred Plans", theMarineCaptain"Axe-ArmMorgan"? When I asked my friend, he thought they looked the same too.
O:He's Morgan. He was aChief Petty Officerat the time, and then got promoted toLieutenant Commander. From there he strong-armed his way up to aCaptain, and was put in charge of a Marine base. When Kuro looked in his eyes, he must have sensed some sort of kindred spirit between them.
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 7.
D: To Master Ei. What time is it now~?
O:Uhhhh... Right now it's... 12:09am! Let's start the SBS Corner!!

D: Does Shanks like me?
O:I don't care!

D: Oda-sensei! A little while ago, my friend came up and said, "I've found the perfect Devil Fruit for you", so I went ahead and ate it. Now it may just be my mind playing tricks on me, but I get the feeling that all the jokes I say aren't very funny.
O:Ohhhhhh... That one, huh? Allright, I'll lay it on you straight. You have eaten the "Samu Samu no Mi". If you eat that fruit, nothing but bad jokes come out of your mouth. And to make matters worse, you can't swim. You really got the raw end of the deal there, my friend. Ha ha ha ha. Laugh it up, laugh it up. Ha ha ha.
(Note: Samu(i) means 'cold', and is often used when someone says a bad joke. Kind of the same as when a comic says "tough audience".)

D: In the first volume, when the bandits enter the bar they destroy the door, so why is it that when they leave, it's repaired?!
O:That was the work of the carpenter "Minatomo-san". He has a short temper, so he cannot pass by a broken door or what-have-you without repairing it. I assure you, this wasn't my mistake.
(Text: "Don't joke around, punk!! Quit lookin' at me~").
D: Why does Sanji-san's eyebrow curl up at the end? Is it for fashion? Make it clear!!
O:Hey!! You there, sit down!! Now listen!! Everyone lives in circles!! The Sun, the Moon, and the Earth all spin in circles!! And!! If the Earth suddenly stopped spinning!! The planet would be covered in tidal waves!! It would be terrible!! Now remember that Sanji's eyebrow channels that same powerful circular energy!! Reflect upon this!! You may go!!

D: A question. How old isSanji-san?
O:19 years old. The same asZoro.

D: Nami, Nami Nami, Nami, I love Nami. I won't give her over to that Sanji guy!! Therefore, I propose a duel, for Nami. Tomorrow, at 3pm, on the Red Line. Be there! Oda-sensei, is this okay?
O:OK!! Fight!!

D: How many assistants do you have? What do they do?
O:There are four. They help me with the backgrounds and so forth. They stay at my house and help me for 3 days and 2 nights a week, but to tell you the truth, I wouldn't be able to finish a chapter without them. However, it's such a silly place with all of us together that doing the work is very fun.
No SBS. Special feature onPandaman.
D: I have a question. How quickly can CaptainKurorun 100 meters?
O:To tell you the truth, it is extremely hard to measure his speed correctly, but I don't think it would take more than 5 seconds. Think of it as 4 point something. Whoa! That's a world record.

D: ArePattyandCarne's names from "spaghetti" and "calzone"?(Note: Calzone spelled in Japanese isCarutsōne(カルツォーネ), and Carne is spelled Carune (カルネ))
O:Hmmm! It is true that their names are derived from food-related words, but that's not right. Patty is taken from the name of a type of dessert chef (patissiere). And Carne is taken directly from the Spanish word for meat.

D: If Luffy is 7,200 Funky Gomu Gomus, does that mean Sanji is about 8,500 Funky Ero Eros?
O:Oh, no, not at all. He can get at least 930 Fairy Tale Ero Eros.

D: Could you make theOne Piecetankōbona little cheaper? (like 100 yen...)
O:Right now... 1 book is 410 yen. And Jump costs 220 yen... When I was in elementary school, a tankōbon was 360 yen and a Jump cost 170 yen. But the price of everything rises. There's nothing I can do about it. It's the same for everyone. And 100 yen is just never gonna happen.

D: Sensei! When you are drawing the characters of One Piece, and Luffy is mad, for example, do you get a mad expression on your face, or look really strained?? Tell me!! I do it.
O:Oh, I sure do. I make lots of faces when I draw. When I drew the double page spread of the break-up of the Usopp Pirate Crew, my face got really tired. I cried so much when I drew that, I thought my face was going to cramp up.
D: Are those three-roped things of hair coming out ofZeff's nose a mustache? Or it is nose hair? Or fake hair?
O:It's braided hair. The technical name is "somehow okay hair".
(Note: Oda's answer to that question is a pun. He says "yosage" (which could mean "okay hair") instead of "osage", or "braided hair".)
D: Oda-sensei! I thought of a great move!
1. Luffy stretches out his arm.
2. Zoro cuts his arm off.
3. The arm shoots away.
Note: the move can only be used twice!
O:Whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa...

D: To Odacchi: I am your betrothed. When are we going to be married? Should it be November 1? We're going to kiss in the marriage ceremony, right?! I'm sooooo nervous *kiss*! Actually, I'm Namie Amuro's little sister.
O:Okay... to the hospital.

D: I wanna say something to the guy who said Zoro's stomach band was for "old fogies" in the SBS on p. 130 of Volume 4!! You, yes, you!! First, I too wondered, why does "Cool Guy Zoro" have a stomach band? But then, once I realized that it's a part of Zoro, it became okay! I, yes I shall allow it! So you should too! Now we're friends!
O:...Oh! A friendship between readers has bloomed... Wonderful.

D: Only the upper half ofBuggy's body can fly around (or float, or whatever), right? So he should be able to send onlyhis top halfto the Grand Line through the air. Why doesn't he do that?
O:He cannot. ABara Baraman has a certain distance limit to his ability. There is a 200 Bara Bara diameter circle around the point where the person touches the ground. Outside of that distance, he cannot control those parts of his body.
D: Did you know that Koby's father is the world champion of jump-rope?
O:No... I didn't know that. Koby's dad sure isamazing...
D: Is it true thatKlahadore's pet is a mammoth?
O:No... I didn't know that either. I supposed he was keeping it around that mansion...?
D: What criteria do you use to pick your "Usopp Gallery Pirates"?
O:Well, the drawing skill, how fun it is, the artistic sense... But of course, the most valuable thing for any postcard is SPIRIT.
D: When I was working at a fruit stand a little while ago, there was some little brat who said, "How dumb, this place doesn't have any Gomu Gomu no Mi". If a kid like that comes to the shop again, what should I say? Please tell me. (Seriously).
O:In those situations, this is what all these characters would do.
Makino-san:"Yes, I'm sorry, we don't have any". Shrug it off like an adult.
Shanks:"DAHAHAHAHA!! You're 10 years too young for a Devil Fruit!!" Tease them.
Luffy:"I'll blow you away right now". Show no mercy.
O:Mimic the character you feel most similar to. I take no responsability for what happens.
D: Take a CharacterFan Poll!!
O:Uhhh, I won't do it in the books, but I already did one in Jump, and the results will appear on page 148. (This poll was run for about two or three weeks afterChapter 49, "The Storm".)
No SBS. Results of theFirst One Piece Character Poll.
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 8.
D: Salutations. I am an earthlien* who lives in the same house that Usopp's father Yassop's friend's brother's girlfriend lived in a long time ago. *An earthlien is half-earthling, half alien.
O:Wowwwww. Let the SBS begin!! (Donnn)
D: The hourglasses on both sides ofDon Krieg's skull and bones are supposed to indicate a threat to the enemy, but were hourglasses really used for that meaning? At that period in time?
O:There really were pirate flags with hourglasses on them. It basically indicated the time left until the death of their prey, so it holds a meaning like, "It's only a matter of time until your surrender".
D: Oda-sensei. SinceLuffyis a Gomu Human, does that mean his "penis" can stretch, too?
O:His penis can stretch too.
D: I have a question. How many g/cm3isSanji's kick power? I would like you to give me an answer to two decimals, please.
O:To tell you the truth, it's impossible to measure. There are games at the arcade that measure your kick power? Well, if Sanji used one of those, he would destroy not only the game, but the wall of the entire building. But if you tried to put it into a form of measurement, I would say 21 bats. The power to destroy 21 wooden baseball bats in one kick.
D: Yo!! Ei-chan!! Are you still working on One Piece? Keep drawing, man!! Okay, Ei-chan, here's my question. Who are the "One Piece" characters with the highest and lowest IQ's?! Okay, that's enough for today.
O:I'll tell you. But when I say "in One Piece". I really mean, "of all the characters introduced so far in One Piece". And having cleared that up, the character with the highest IQ is Shanks' first mate,Benn Beckman. He is a great crewmate, whosupports Shanks with hisastonishing wisdom and strength. And right after him would probably beCaptainKuro, thenNami, etc. Now as for the lowest IQ... I can't decide the worst one. They're all idiots.
D: Oda-sensei, is your house really made of cardboard? (I heard from a friend.)
O:Yes. Whether it's rainy or sunny or snowy, I always draw my manga. But don't worry. The certificate ink I use is waterproof!! (Caution: good children should not believe me!)
D: What is that cape-like thing thatBuchiof the Nyaban Brothers has? Is it a futon?
O:Actually, it's a "kotatsu-buton". He's a cat, after all.
(A kotatsu-buton is the futon that covers a kotatsu, which is a table with a heater underneath. The cover keeps the heat underneath, and cats are said to love hiding under the kotatsu where it's warm).
D: Is Luffy's pose on the cover of Volume 3 from Ken Shimura-san's "Aiiin"?
O:Oh my god, you're right!! It's Aiiin!! It really is. Yes, it is Aiiin.
("Aiiin" is a well-known gag from veteran comedian Shimura Ken. Ken's recent famous characters are Baka Tono (Stupid Lord) and Henna Ojisan. Baka Tono's signature pose is "Aiiiiiiin!" The sub-unit of Morning Musume, Mini Moni even did an entire song on it called "Ai~n! Dance Song")
D: Does Sanji-san like to say shit?
O:He loves to say shit.
D: I don't understand theMarinessystem very well. IsCaptainthe highest rank? IsKobyat the headquarters? Or a base?? Where does LieutenantFullbodystand?
O:This is it (→). This is the entire explanation of the Marines system in the world of "One Piece". The base Koby is in is the153rd Branch. Officers of Captain rank and above command the bases spread out all over the world. I wonder when the day Koby advances to be an Officer will come.
(also seeMarine Ranks.)
D: InVolume 5, pg. 159 (3rd panel), did that fat guy in the lower left corner manage to steal her food?
O:Well spotted!! Amazing!! That would be Mr.Motzel, the gourmet, yes? He ate her food. Then they fought afterwards. The girl beside him is Mr. Motzel's daughter.
D: Sensei, there's somethign I really want to have--a ONE PIECE Class Schedule!!
A One Piece class schedule
O:Class Schedule... ahh... that brings back memories! How about something like this!? Use a copier to enlarge it or shrink it, and use it however you like!! Are there schools with seven periods? I drew it that way, just in case.
D: If I want to be a girl as cool and courageous as Zoro, how should I start?
O:A girl, eh? Hmmm. First, you squat!! Then, in order to become courageous, eat some sardines!!
D: Konnichiwa Oda-sensei, I mean, nihao!! I wracked my non-existent brains and created a song for Luffy. Please read, dance and cry!
First verse:
Second verse:
How is it? I am the champion, right? I'm ready to take on the world, right? Shall I go? Okay.. Here I go!!
O:Yayyyyyy!! Get outta here!!
D: Is Luffy made of natural rubber? Or artificial rubber? -A Meteorological Agency Investigation- (Ministry of Education rip off)
O: He's naturallystupidrubber.
D: When we were talking about One Piece, I said I like Shanks, my friend S. likes Zoro, and I. likes Luffy, but R. likes Buggy and Jango. Should they go see a doctor?
O: Choosing those two is certainly aserious illness... But you should just tell them to rest at home and take it easy. And then tell them to get... stronger... and that life is worth living, and... stuff...
D: In "Monkey D. Luffy", what does the D stand for?! Is it "donburi" (a bowl)? Or maybe "daibutsu" (giant Buddha statue)? Or maybe...!! I'm really curious. Please tell me.
O:I've gotten a ridiculous number of these letters... So many. But I cannot answer that question. I can't answer it... yet. Please just read it as"D"and don't think too deeply into it, for now.
D: What is the connection between pirates and rum? Why is that every book mentions pirates and rum together in the same sentence?
O:It's not just pirates and rum, but sailors and rum. In short, rum is cheap. Because of that, back in the sailing days of England, the liquor they supplied the navy with changed from brandy to rum, and the hard-drinking men of the sea became associated with rum. As for why they would take so much liquor, it was because the water would go bad on longer voyages.
D: Last night, I met a guy from the Planet Gomu Gomu. When I asked him, "How far can you stretch your arm?" he said "705 Poison Gomu Gomus." How much is 705 Poison Gomu Gomus?
O:You met someone from the Gomu Gomu Planet?! Wow!! That's great!! A "Poison Gomu Gomu" is 10 times as much as a "Gomu Gomu". So in other words, 7,050 Gomu Gomus!! That's an astronomical length!! But be careful. Gomu Gomuns are notorious for giving the most ridiculous answers in the universe.
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 9.
D: Sensei, I can't stop my "okay hair". How do I stop it?
O:There's no need to!!  The SBS begins!!
D: To Oda-Sensei, I always(x2) have fun reading One Piece! By the way, in Volume 7 p. 18, third panel, the knife Sanji's holding appears to have some writing on it, but it's so small, I can't tell what it is. What's written on it? Please tell me!!
O:I'm not surprised you can't tell what it is. I drew it so you couldn't tell. However, you did well to find it. I'll fess up. It says "Hokuto no Ken" (Fist of the North Star). It was a really famous series in Jump from when I was in elementary school. Do you know it?
D: I decided, I wanna participate in the SBS Corner, too!! And this is what came out, so listen up. Do you like crap, Oda-sensei? The word pops up a lot, and it's drawn on Klahadore's clothes, so I figured... Personally, I love it.
O:Crap?! I'd be too embarrassed to say such a naughty, filthy word!! Please, stop it!!
D: When I read about Usopp's past, told in Merry's refined speech, I accidentally started "man-crying", even though I'm a girl. The tears ran down my cheeks and into my mouth. What do you think it tasted like?
O:Like crap. (Rolling style)
D: I heard from somewhere that Sanji's afternoon snack isCastella(sponge cake). Is that true? (After all, "Sanji no Oyatsu wa Bunmeido")
O:Ah, I see.
(This is a joke based on a Japanese commercial for Bunmeido Castella cake. The catchphrase means "Bunmeido is the 3 o'clock snack", but 3 o'clock is "Sanji" in Japanese, so it can also sound like "Sanji's snack is Bunmeido").
Spirit(心意気,Kokoroiki?)
D:Oda-sensei, this is the "Spirit of the Heart" (What Zoro uses to speak with the sword in his mouth), isn't it? (Pen Name Arunya)
O:Yes. This is a good "Spirit of the Heart".
D: Nobunaga: If the cuckoo won't sing, kill it.
Hideyoshi: If the cuckoo won't sing, make it want to sing.
Ieyasu: If the cuckoo won't sing, wait.
^A haiku that expresses the personalities of those who ruled the land. What about you, sir?
O:Eiichiro: If the cuckoo won't sing, buy a cola. Meaning: "I want a cola right now." (And not that diet stuff)
D: I went to the barber and told him "A Spirit-of-the-Man's-Heart cut!!" Then he said, "Okay!!" and he shaved my head bald. Entirely the wrong look. Sensei, are there any requirements to become a Zoro? Tell me!! *Sob sob*.
O:Don't cry!! Stand up!! There are some battles in which a man cannot run from!! So what if you got shaved bald once?! When your hair grows out again, go back to that barber and challenge him!! A return match!! Well, if I were you, I wouldn't (Wild Laughter).
D: I LOVE SANJI LIKE THAT.
O:Like what?
D: Oda-sensei, it's awfull!! My friend has contracted "If-You-Don't-Eat-A-Snack-You-Will-Die" illness! How can this terrible, terrible affliction be cured?! He'll die soon!!
O:Don't get flustered!! Get a hold of yourself!! It's okay!! Chill out!! Calm down!! Okay, next question.
D: How many Debu Debus is Alvida's Debu-sa (Fatness)? *WHIRLLLLL* CRACK! AAAAAH!
O:Ahh, do whatever you want already.
D: What are the pistols inOne Piececalled? They don't look like matchlocks..
O:They are "flintlockpistols". The flint is a spark-making stone, so you can think of it as one step better than the fuse of a matchlock.
D: OI!! Oda-kun!! Sit down right there!! Now listen up!! I don't want to hear any junk about you wanting to look at the side of yor face!! What are you gonna do if you break your neck?! Value your life, sonny!! You shouldn't have to be scolded by some younger guy like myself!! Think on this!! You may go!!
O:Sigh... I'm very sorry.
D: When I tried to look at the side of my face in a mirror like you said on the inside cover of Volume 7, I twisted my neck and had to go to the doctor. The doctor asked me, "How did this happen to you?" What should I have told him?
O:Hey... A kindred spirit.
D: Hello. I have wine in my house ,so I wondered, "What country is it from?" And when I looked on the back, I saw the words "dry, full body". It was a bit of surprise. But I was rather pleased. Is this the origin ofFullbody-san's (The Ironfist) name? It is, isn't it? If it isn't, I think my life might be over.
O:It's not over! You are right! I really don't drink much wine, so I don't know a whole lot about it, but I learned that the strength of and heaviness of the taste is called "body"! Heavy wine a long fermentation time has a "full body", and as it gets lighter it goes to "medium body", and then "light body"! Thus my explanation of Lieutenant Fullbody's name is complete! Thank you very much!!
D: Where did Dandy Gin-san hide those weapons of his? Huh? There?! Well great, this thought is going to keep me from dozing off on the train now.
O:What?! Are you suggesting that he hid those weapons as his balls?! As Dandy Gin's golden balls?! You're going to make all the Gin fans very angry. Gin's a popular one, he is.
( "Golden balls" and "Testicles" are pronounced the same ("Kintama") in the Japanese language)
D: HEYYYYYY!! Guy who said he likes Namiiiiiiii!! Fight with me!! I love Nami 100x more than youuuuuuu. But I love you toooooooo. Am I a homooooooooo (angry)? No, we're frieeeeeends. You and I are frieeeeeeeends.
O:...That's right. The guy who kept saying Nami Nami Nami in Volume 7. Get along, now!
D: In an SBS in Volume 7, you said Sanji-san's age was 19, but after discussing with my friend, we arrived at the conclusion that this was a lie. How old is he, really?
O:Uh, it's not quite up to you to decide that. All you can do is take my word for it... It's true.
D: Why did "Red LegZeff" eat his right leg? That's where his kick power lies, so couldn't he eat the left one instead?
O:BZZZZT. Wrong. The base of your kick strength is actually the "pivoting leg". For instance, if you were to try to  kick a ball with your right leg, what would happen if you didn't have a left leg? You couldn't kick it, right? Why don't you go ask your soccer-playing friends? The life of the kick is contained in the leg that supports your weight!!
D: Oda-sensei! Drop your pen! Stop drawing manga! I have a question. My older brother and I work together to buy the SBS, but we accidentally bought two copies of Volume 5. What should we do? If you answer me, you may use your pen!
O:Well, then... How about, "go buy five more copies of Volume 5"? Then the fact that you bought two before won't really matter anymore, and you can laugh about it! Can I pick up the pen now?
D: If Luffy wants a musician so bad, why doesn't he come to my house? Is it because I don't live by the ocean? Is it because I'm actually an alien? Is it because my feet have been smelly lately?
O:It's because your feet smell. The SBS is over!! Until next Volume!!
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 10.
D: I am "Timmy Ueda", from the SBS Hijacking Group! I will start the SBS Corner before Oda-sensei can!! "Uhhh, start the SBS!!"
O:Gah! Damn. He started it first! Damn you, Timmy, damn you! How am I going to start the SBS now? Oh, wait, it just started.
D: Hello, Oda-sensei. You know, inVolume 8, page 92, the sixth panel, you wrote "Search forPandaman"? Well, I can't find him. Where is he? Please show me.
O:Aha. I got a whole bunch of postcards from people about this one. A bunch from people who found him, and a bunch from people who didn't find him. And I thought the words were so small that no one would notice to begin with! Well, I'll show you the answer. In the bottom circle is written the phrase, "Search for Pandaman!!!" And in the upper-right circle is the man' himself. .
D: When theArlongguys and the otherFish-Mengive birth, do they lay eggs like fish?
O:BZZZT. Fish-Men are still mammals, so they give birth the way humans do. There are fishwomen too, of course.
D: I wanna know the height of all five. Nami's really cute.
O:The main five, you mean? I'll get this one out of the way. First of all, Gaimon's height is... kidding. I'll start from the shortest.
D: Of all the Fish-Men,Hatchanis the cutest and funniest. But there's one thing that bugs me. Why is Hatchan's full name Hatchan, and his nickname Hachi?
O:A lot of Chinese people have names that go **** Chan. So it should be just fine.
D: What is the thing that Usopp and a lot of the pirates inOne Piecehave tied around their waists? A towel? Or did they want one of Zoro's stomach bands, but they couldn't get one for themselves, so they used those instead?
O:← These things? They do all have them, don't they? There's no real deep reason for them, though. I guess pirates just liked to wear these "decorative sashes". But sometimes they put their pistols in them, so maybe they aren't totally pointless.
D: Here we go! WUUUUUUUUUUN(1)! TYYYYYYYUUUUUUU(2)!! THHHUUUUURRREEEEEE(3)?!!!
O:DAAAAHHHHHHHH!!!!
D: One more time! ♥ ONNNNNEE(1)! ♥ TWOOOOOO(2)! ♥ THREEEEE(3) ♥
O:DAAAAHHHHHHHH!!!! Oh...! They're playing with me.
(This chant, "ONE, TWO, THREE, DAAAAH", is the call of legendary wrestler Antonio Inoki).
D: Yo! 'Sup. One Piece is always a hurricane of emotion. This is the first time I ever wrote to a manga artist. Oda-sensei is my favorite character.
O:I ain't no character.
D: A little while ago, my friend asked me to draw Shanks, so I did. Then he hit me on the head all of a sudden, and said, "Why'd you draw Jango?!" Is this a disease?
O:Yes. It is a disease. "Drawing Jango Sickness", I believe. You're always going to draw Jango. Be careful, as the final symptom of this disease is when you draw Jango rather than signing your name for a home delivery.
D: On page 121 inVolume 8, that thing that rises aboveZeff's head is a hat, right? My mother says, "It's too tall to be a hat. There must be a pole behind him or something." Sensei, please make this blockhead (age 44) agree with me.
O:Okay, mom, listen to me now. In this world, there are certain unyielding truths that you cannot avert your eyes from. The thing that is standing on Zeff's head is the "Tower of Faith", supported by the spirit of the heart. It's called the "Cook's Slice of Heaven Hat". That's right!!!
D: Sensei! I thought of a new move for Luffy-chan. It goes like this... Luffy stretches his mouth and eats the enemy, then he goes to the bathroom and poops it out! How's that? It's good, right? A good idea.
O:No, it's not.
D: I have a question for Oda-sensei. What do you callBell-mère-san's haircut?
O:That hairstyle is called "Women have Guts". You should yell it out in a beauty parlor.
D: I'm glad Sanji is "girl-crazy", not "boy-crazy".
O:Uh, totally.
D: When Sanji thinks about a girl, the smoke from his cigarette turns into a heart shape. How does he do it? I want to try too!! Please (x100) tell me!
O:Uh, first of all, you have to be over 20 years old. Then light your cigarette and take a big drag. When you do that, the smoke will come in contact with the "Feeling of Love" you put in your lungs beforehand, and then when you blow the smoke out, it will most surely come out in the shape of a heart.
D: I can't really tell if Yosaku and Johnny are strong or not. It's definitely by a hair. To be totally straight, between those two and Helmeppo, who can stretch further?
O:I hope that Kaya will become a wonderful Doctor.
D: When I read your manga, Sensei, I get the feeling that I should do what I want. So I've gotten the urge to pursue my dream to build a gigantic bridge in America.
O:That's nice. A boy with a dream. I like that. Well, you know what? If anyone tries to stop you , I'll, like... put on a pair of leather boots... and kick their little toes or something. So don't worry. Try hard.
D: BAM! BAM! Click. Helloooo? Oda-sensei...? Oh damn, he's not home!!
O:That was terrible.
D: What does it mean when the cook Patty says, "Excuse me, your Hickness"?
O:You know the saying, "Please excuse me, sir"? Well, he seems to be using "Hickness" in the place of "Sir". For example, you would use it like this. "Oh my, you were in the hospital for a year? That must have been dreadful, your Hickness". "This man has accomplished many great deeds. A round of applause for his Hickness". And so on...
D: I have a question. Does Usopp have bones in his nose? Because I've seen it bent many times now...
O:Well, I've never seen that. How could his nose possibly bend? What a ridiculous thing to... WHOA!! IT DOES BEND!!! THE SBS IS OVER!!
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the volume extra fromVolume 11.
Oda:This time, I thought I'd take a break from the SBS Corner and answer the very frequent question, 
"What does the inside ofLuffy's ship look like?" What kind of a ship IS Luffy and friends' Going 
Merry, anyway? Here's your answer!!
Further information,Going Merry - Ship Design and Appearance.
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 12.
D: Timmy Ueda-sama of the SBS Hijacking Group, I beg of you! Please accept me, Martha Shimoda, as your follower. I'll do anything you want. So, to begin with... "Start the SBS!!" Yaaay. How was it Timmy-sama? I started it.
O:...GYAAAAAHHH!! IT HAPPENED AGAAAAAIN!! DAMN YOU, TIMMYYYY!! Damn you, Timmy's apprentice!! Shit on a stick!!
D: Hello, Mr. Oda-sensei. I am continuing my efforts to be a swordsman. Do you if I keep working as a swordsman,  that someday I might be as strong as Sanji-san?
O:Crappity crap!! Goddamn Timmy!! Are you one of Timmy's followers, too?! Is that right?! Wait, you are not?! Oh...!! Sorry, sorry. Sorry for flying off the handle like that. Uhhh... Become like Sanji by being a swordsman...? Yeah, right!! What does that have to do with anything?! Crap!! I'm getting all out of whack this time around... Be cool, be cool.
D: Greetings. I like Luffy Number 1. Number 2 is Sanji. The reason is Sanji's expressions.
Shitty old geezer > Poop old man
Shitty bastards > Poop men
Shit, that tastes good > Poop delicious
Quite filthy, isn't he. Is it okay if I lower Sanji's rank?
O:I'm not gonna argue with ya on that one. Right? How can you argue with that?
D: A question for sensei. Why doZoroandSanjiandNamidrink alcohol, when they're still minors? Is that allowed?
O:No.
D: I usually don't send this type of thing, but this time I did. Oda-sensei, I challenge you! Aka-Tako-Ashi-Kiken Ki-Tako-Ashi-Kiken Cha-Tako-Ashi-Kiken
(Red octopus leg danger, yellow octopus leg danger, brown octopus leg danger)
Try to say this 3 times fast. (And put it in the SBS)
O:Aha... A tongue-twister? Pshh, these are so easy.. Ready, go!!
ACHAKABATASABADARAPPA...!!!
Okay, next.
D: Oda-chaaaan. I've always wanted to ask; at the end of the book, it says making unauthorized copies is a copyright violation. But is it okay to make copies of the timetable and stuff? Please tell me. From the third ofKoby's happy friends.
O:It's complicated to explain, but basically, permission has been granted in several places for that illustration, so it's all right. Also, a lot of people wrote to say, "My school goes for eight periods", but I'm sure you can manage a workaround on that one. Sorry. It's hard to study for so long!
D: Here's a question. When do fan letters reach you, Oda-sensei? Every week? For instance, if I mailed one on November 1, when does it fall into your hands? Please let me know.
O:First of all, the letters everyone sends me are delivered to the "Weekly Shounen Jump Editorial Department". There, people working part-time separate the letters according to author, and my manager sends me my letters once a week. So if you're lucky, it might even be the day it arrives at the Editorial Department. It's almost always within a week or two, though.
D: You said in Volume 7 that when you're drawing characters' facial expressions, you make the same face. Do you do the same thing when you draw one of Nami's sexy faces? Do you make an "Ooh-la-la" face?
O:Of course. I'm famous with the local public for my sexy faces. They think I might be hotter than a magazine model queen.
D: Yo! So, this is the first time we've talked, Ei-chan. (Ehehe!) I'm so EMBARRASSED! Anyway, I have a question. "Buggythe Clown" can split himself in pieces, right? Which means he can also do it DOWN THERE, if you catch my drift... I can't get any more specific! Don't make me say it! Don't draw anything until you answer this question!!
O:His penis can fly too.
D: I am the president of the "International Somehow Okay Hair League" (SBS, chapter 58). Restaurant owner Zeff-san's is a splendid specimen, in color, length, gloss, everything!! So we have decided that Zeff-san shall be the "41st Somehow Okay Hair Champion"! Congratulations. Oda-sensei, any comments?!
O:Er... I can't help but be curious about who the previous forty champions were.
D: I've been thinking about something for a while. How canArlongwear a ring on his fingers when his hands are webbed?
O:That's because they go straight through his fingers. Like, jabbed straight through. They're more like piercings than rings.
D: BRRRRRING... BRRRRRRING... Click... "Ah... Hello... Is this Mino*nta-san? Listen... What's that? You're not Mino*nta-san? Huh? Oda-san... Ah... Sorry, wrong number..." Click... Beep, Beep, Beep, Beep...
O:...Uh...
D: (Episode I) Odacchi, will you save meee?! This Yamada guy who lives next door looks like a fish-man. And to prove it, he's got gills near his face... Ah, oooh, it's really cold all of a sudden... I wonder if I turned the air conditioner a little too high. NO! IT's BLOODLUST!! FVWOW (Lightsaber-igniting sound). To be continued...
O:I won't save you.
D: How far can Buggy separate himself? I'm so interested I've been growing okay hair for three straight days.
O:Buggy? Well... Let's just say there's a cutoff point. Apparently, if he's any further away from his parts after that, he loses control. But more importantly, since you're growing okay hair, why don't you enter yourself in that "Okay Hair Contest" they were just talking about? Hmm?
D: Okay, here we go!! Start the SBS corner!!
O:BWAHAHAHAHAHA!! YAAAAYYYYY!! I printed this one where it's totally out of place!! Take that!! There have been a whole lot of letters like this lately. A whole lot.
D: On page 78 of Volume 9, you can see the characters for "Koi" (Love) and "Sake" (Ale). Those wouldn't be plays on "Koi" (Carp) or "Sake" (Salmon), would they? You wouldn't do that, would you, sensei? I trust you... By the way, what kind of fish-men are they?
O:W-Wow, that little gag is so old, I'd forgotten all about it. Uhhh... Next, please...
D: Hello!! This is a postcard to Oda-sensei, obviously. Oh! I forgot to introduce myself. I am "Timmy Maiko"! Does the word "Timmy" remind you of anything...? Yes... Oh Yes! "Timmy Ueda"! I'm kind of like a sister to Ueda. You might recall him from Volume 10. I sent this postcard in to thank you for including him... Hee(x2)! And as his sister of sorts, I will end this before Oda-sensei can. Why? Because I am a member of the SBS-Hijacking Group after all.
"THE SBS IS OVER!"
O:GYAAAAHH! Not again!! Damn you, Timmy, DAMN YOUUUU!!
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 13.
O: Before I start the SBS, I'd like to introduce a letter that has come in to save me from a certain group that has been ruining this corner. I'm so happy.
D: Hello. I have great news for Odacchi today. I'm taking a stand to protect Odacchi from the "SBS Hijacking Group" that has been obstructing his SBS Corner!!! I call myself Team Captain Richard of the "Advancement of the Destruction of the SBS Hijacking Group Team". Now to celebrate our first day of action: Ready, set, go!! Start the SBS!
O: Great, now you started it!!
D: I've been thinking on a worthy topic for five years now. And that topic is, "Why is it that in battle manga, the bottom half of people's clothes never get ruined?!"
O: If they fought naked, wouldn't it kind of change the emphasis of the manga?
D: In regards ofTashigi-san, who appears inVolume 11- On page 119, she acts quite near-sighted, but when she's looking at the katana on page 132, she put her glasses up on purpose, and on page 161, when she runs up late, she isn't wearing them at all. Are they just for show?
O:It's not really for show; it's because she's slightly short-sighted. She can see things close up, but when they get farther away, they start to get blurry. I think. Most likely.
D: We've gotten a nomination for Oda-kun to be the voice actor for Pandaman. Anyone who disagrees, please raise your hand. By the School Grade Committee Chairman.
O:Oooh, good idea. Me, the voice actor for Pandaman? Nice. Okay, I'll go talk to the people at Toei Animation about doing that... Wait, Pandaman doesn't have any lines.
D: Question. You said the SBS Corner stands for "(S)hitsumon o (B)oshuu (S)uru (I'm taking questions) Corner." Huh? I forgot my question. Ahahahahahahahaha, yuk it up! Ha ha ha ha ha ha. Shahahahahahahaha...
O:What?!! Arlong?!!
D:
To Oda-sensei - Why did you make the "SBSCorner"? (cat)
O:A cat... that's a cat...? So, why did I create it? When I read manga graphic novels years ago, a lot of authors used to put this sort of thing in their books. Because I enjoyed them so much, I decided that if I was a manga artist, I would put them in my books. That's why I made it. You know... if that's supposed to be a cat...
D: IS HATCHAN A TAKOYAKI CHAMPION?
O:That can't possibly be a cat... An octopus, maybe... Is it an octopus?
D: What are the "21 O-Wazamono" and "Wazamono" and all that stuff? Also, what doesYubashiri's "unravelled edge with a small T" mean?! Huh???? I'm totally lost.
O:Ahh, well. You don't really need to understand it, mainly it was just supposed to sound really cool and impressive. But for the curious, I'll give a little explanation about katanas here.
D: Are those glasses thatUsoppwears when he fights?
O:Those are goggles. "Sniper goggles". At first he only wore them for looks, but inLoguetownhe got the brand new model from "North Blue". The scene on the right was supposed to be the first page ofChapter 98, inVolume 11. The number of pages went over the limit, so we scrapped it. The goggles have sunglasses on them to eliminate glare when aiming, and they can flip up and turn around and stuff like that, so Usopp really likes them.
(Page on the right)
Usopp: Hmmmm? Hmmmm. Ooooooh. Damn! I like these goggles!!
Lady:You got an eye for the good stuff. That's the newest model from "North Blue". It came with the Marines when their annual import ship came by.
Usopp:I also want this watch, and this magnet! Oh, don't you have any raw eggs?!
Lady:Go to the market for that!
D: Hello, Oda-sensei. This is confusing to me, so please answer clearly. Is the stuff that you draw onSanji-san's chin a BEARD? Or is it just a SHADOW? If it's a beard, please make him shave it off.
O:IT IS A BEARD! I WILL NOT MAKE HIM SHAVE IT !! THE SBS IS OVER!! OVER... over... over...
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 14.
D: Well, I'd like to start the SBS, but I mustn't do it on my own, so I'll go ask Oda-sensei to start it... Sensei? Sensei!! Start the Corner!! Oh!! He's sleeping?! Oh well. Guess I'll have to do it, then. And now, "Start the SBS!!"
O:ZZZZZZZZ... AHH!! Crap, I slept in. Oh, time for the SBS. Great, it started without me again!!
D: Heya, Sensei, I gots a question for ya. I can't sleep at night cuz I think about it so much. Listen to me, man. WHAT DOES THE PURA IN TEMPURA STAND FOR?
O:Shut up!! Who cares what the hell Pura means?! (< Just woke up)
D: Good day,Oda-sensei. I am Kazuya, butler for Yano-sama. According to my friend K-Bayashi S-Hei (Kobayashi Shohei?, inVolume 10, onNami's clothes on page 87 andHelmeppo's hat on page 109, it says "DOSKOI PANDA". Where does this animal come from?
O:That's a brand name. It's very popular inEast Blueright now. And pretty expensive. Very high class. One shirt might cost you over 10,000Belly. Beware of the imposter brand "DOSKO1 PANDA".
DOSKOI PANDA's headquarters are located onMirror Ball Islandin East Blue.
Eiichiro Oda (center) and Hiroyuki Takei (right).
D: Your attention, please. I would like to ask Oda-kun something about the photo on the inside ofVolume 13. Isn't that the exact same picture from the inside of Volume 8 of "Shaman King"? Huh? Huh?! HUH?!! from a guy who wants to be called Mocchi.
O:Yes. I've decided not to show my face in the volume flap pictures (because if I do, it will make my everyday life much harder). That picture is Mr. Takei's, who draws the comic "Shaman King", which also runs inWeekly Shonen Jump. We made up a scheme to put the same photo in both of our books, on the occasion that we both had books out the same day. So, the one sitting cross-legged is me, and the one smoking is Mr. Takei.
"It's a lemon. Kyahahaha."
D: The dressMiss Valentinewears is so cute. Is the design on that one piece an orange? I'm curious.
O:That's a lemon. Kyahahahaha. A lemon slice. Kyahahaha.
D: In Volume 13,Mr. 5's "Nose Fancy Cannon" is spelled "鼻空想砲 (Hanakūsōhō)". Doesn't that really mean (sorry, I know it's 'vulgar') "Booger (Hanakuso) Cannon (Hō)"?
O:It's a booger. Kyahahaha. I laughed my ass off when I made it up.
Nose Fancy (*roll roll*) Cannon!! (flick - DOOON!!)
D: Hello, Odacchi-sama!! I am called "Sayaka"! Please answer this!! On page 79 ofVolume 11, 4th panel, there's an old drunk guy! Why is he there?! Answer please, Ei-chan!


O:Well spotted. I'm so happy. Well, I'll tell you. His name isSam. He's drunk. On his way home from his eldest daughter's wedding, swaying back and forth across the road, he accidentally came toArlong Park. All around him, he saw people joyfully celebrating. So he got excited too and starting running with them. That's our Sam.
D: What are those "Raw Ham Melons" that appeared in Volume 11?
O:It's an italian hors d'oeuvre with moderately salted, thinly sliced raw ham and sweet melon, which combines in a miraculous harmony. They can come in many appearances, but as long as it's raw ham on top of melon, it's a "Raw Ham Melon".
D: Where do you learnFish-Man Karate? Please tell me.
O:At "Fish-Man Island". It's about halfway down the Grand Line. It'll probably come around at some point, so just take it easy and wait.
D: Please continue the SBS.
O:...Okay. Yep. Wayyy ahead of ya..
D: Oda-sensei!! What's the heck is this all about?! InVolume 13, on page 97, on the faces of the dummies thechikuwaguy's carrying, it says"Henohenou_chi"!! What is this?! What is it? What is the meaning of this?! "The Cry of a Reader's Soul"
O:That's nonsense... Henohenou_chi!? Hahaha... I wouldn't write something like that. This scene, right?
Ah!! You're right!! Damn you, Igaram!! I can't forgive you for commiting such a tyrannical act in this refined manga, "One Piece"!! And what's with that make-up?! Hey!! There, I scolded him, okay? Please forgive him.
D: Why doesIgarappoigo "ahem, maaa-maaa-maaa"? I'm so interested I can't sleep.
O:"Maaa-maaa-maaa". It's the very first thing you practice when you take singing lessons.
Maaa (→) Maaa (↗) Maaa (↑) Maaa (↗) Maa (→)
So he does that singing thing when he speaks. His throat is strug...!! Ahem!! Ahem!!
Maaa-maaa-maaa-maaa-maaa!
D: Sensei!! Hey-ey-o!! I love Usopp! Hey, Eiichiro!!! Look over here!!! USOOOOOOPP RUBBER BAND!!!
O:........
D: Hello, Oda-sensei. I just noticed something odd in theUsopp Gallery Pirates. Let's say I buy the newVolume 13. So how is it that some people have already drawn the new characters? Is it ESP? How do they know? Goodbye.
O:......BAH!! Whoa, that scared me. I thought I was gonna get hit by a rubber band!! Huh? Oh, the new characters. Well, you see, those people read "Jump". I've been reading it ever since I was a kid, too. Even now. It's a magazine. Pretty good one, too!
D: So yesterday, I'm sitting watching television, and this fellow cosplaying as an Egyptian pharoah (like Tutankhamen) had a striped mushroom thing on his CHIN, just likeJango. So my question is, what's the relationship between ancient Egypt and Jango?
O:I can't deny that there actually is a relationship. Jango is the captain of theBlack Cat Pirates. All the crew members wear cat ears on their heads, but he has a striped-mushroom chin. Why is that? Well, look at all the cats we have in Japan. If you go back far enough, they all came from Egypt. So I gave him a sort of Egyptian style. But that's all, so I guess it doesn't really matter very much.
D: Hello, you squid-bastard. Excuse me, your Hickness. Hey Timmy Ueda, I know you're watching! Let's fight!! Shiritori! MIKAN... AW, CRAP! THE SBS IS OVER.
O:Hey, wait a minute. What does the Pura in Tempura mean? And what about the Tem? Tempura... What the heck does that mean?
(Shiritori is a Japanese word game in which each player must say a word beginning with the last syllable of the previous player's word. You lose when you say a word that ends with the solitary "n", because that doesn't start any words in Japanese - Any word that starts with an "n" is actually a combination like "na" "ni" "no", which are entirely different letters in the Japanese alphabet.)
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 15.
D: Hello, everyone! Today,Miss Valentine-sanwill start the SBS in place of Oda-sensei!! Take it away, Miss Valentine!!
Miss V: KYAHAHAHAHA! START THE SBS! ♡
O:Uh...
D: Ei-chan! I can tell you the secret of "Tenpura". It's Portuguese. There's absolutely no meaning to it. The Japanese in olden days simply wrote things down the way they heard the Portuguese say it. They just substituted the characters. If there's anything else you don't understand, don't hesitate to ask! From Knowledgeable Himeko in Yamaguchi
O:Wow. Knowledgeable Himeko knows a lot!! Okay, then I have a question for you, Knowledgeable Himeko. Why is it that in page 51 ofVolume 1, in an extremely important scene, that the three lines onShanks' pirate flag were forg... not there? Was it too much of a pain to... is there a deep reason why it wasn't redrawn despite all the readers pointing it out? I got it!!
It's a message to all the boys and girls saying to go out on a voyage to heal those three scars!! Right?! No, I'm sorry. I forgot... Okay, everyone!! Get out your pens, it's retouching time! I know I make millions of errors, but this is one that I really can't let slide.
D: I have a question. OnVolume 12, page 31, what is that "sailing ceremony" they do? Pen Name: Vivi Fanclub No. 17
O:What they did was use their heels to crack open a barrel of beer to celebrate their entrance into theGrand Line. You could call it a "One Piece-Style Sailing Ceremony". I wanted to draw some more about it, but I really wanted to call the100th chapter"The Legend has Begun", so I was in a hurry to make ends meet. Pretty cool, huh?
Now, about a real "sailing ceremony":
In other words, the "sailing ceremony" is the biggest and most exciting celebration of the birth of a ship. To celebrate, you break a bottle of liquor on the bow of the ship, and if the bottle doesn't break, the ship is cursed with bad luck. It's a time of celebration, but the person who actually does the breaking has to take it seriously. I've even heard that in Viking "sailing ceremonies" they spilled blood on the ship from a live sacrifice. Yikes!
Kaya: It's finished! → yah!
D: Eiichiro Oda-sama... Give me... something (of your belongings).
O:........................No.
D: Good day, Oda-sensei, nice to meet you. And now, without further ado, my question. As it happens, around my school, there's a rumor that says you're a dog... Not only that, a poodle!! Is that true?
O:Bowwow. Bowwowwow. Bowwowwowwowwow. (I am clearly not a dog). Bow Wow. (Okay, next).
D: Where do they sell a man's Heart and Spirit? I have a secondhand woman's Heart and Spirit, by the way.
O:You do?!
D: Oda-sensei!! I've been wondering for a while... What are Luffy, Zoro, Nami, Usopp and Sanji's birthdays? Tell us!!
O:I've gotten a lot of these questions, so I'll answer it now.
Happy birthday! Was that too lazy of me?! Everyone who thinks so, raise your hand. Whoa, that's about a million. But that's what they are, now. Don't give me any crap for it. Yell at their parents.
(Nami's and Sanji's birthdays areJapanese number puns. Luffy's birthday is Children's Day in Japan and South Korea. Zoro's birthday probably comes from the old name of November in Japanese, shimotsuki, which is the same as the name of the village Zoro grew up in. Usopp's birthday is April Fools' day.)
D: DO YOU THINK THERE REALLY ARE SUCH THINGS ASKAPPAS?
O:YES, THERE ARE. LOTS AND LOTS OF THEM. ABSOLUTELY.
D: Would you like an elephant nose radish? (I caught one myself!) By Chojin Canadian-man.
O:Mmm, looks good. Thak you. Chomp Chomp Gobble Gobble... Urg! Urg... UHAAGH!! ...Chomp Chomp Gobble Gobble.
D: How are you, Oda-chan? Anyways, in middle school I was given a form for planning my future course in life, but when I asked the teacher, "Can I write 'pirate' as my number two wish?" he said "Be serious". I am serious! By Saori.
O:Of course you are. How can anyone write that without putting their heart into it? Tell your teacher this, from me!! "What's wrong with being a pillager?!"
D: When I watched theOne Piece anime, at the part that corresponds toVolume 7,Chapter 57(Because of Dreams), it says the reasonZefflost his leg was because it got torn off in the shipwreck. Was that changed because of the young children watching the show?
O:Yes. The concept of eating your own leg in that part of the story would be too much of a shock for young children. When you consider that a medium such as television has tens of millions of viewers, it would be a terrible mistake to fail to adapt to guidelines. It's amazing that all those animators can continue to create such wonderful shows while still having to consider these issues all the time!! If you can feel their love when you watch the show, please send fan letters toToei Animation. It'll cheer everyone up there.
D: When reading the SBS in One Piece Volume 13, a shock like lightning ran through my body. The reason why is because I though SBS stood for S(uggoi) B(aka mitai na) S(pace) ("Very Stupid Space"). About five of my friends told me that's what it meant. What should I do...?
O:Well, to tell you the truth, 90% of the questions that come in to SBS are stupi... <ridiculo... jokes anyways, so what the heck. I don't mind.
D: I just wanna say this toMr. 8! You're a disgrace to the saxophone! What's with that posture?! Your embouchure is pathetic! And at least wear a strap! Think about what I said! Now go!! (by the head of the Brass Club).
O:Yeah, yeah! Tell him. You're pathetic! His em... embousho... chure thing!! And his stri... strap. He really is a disgrace to the saxophone!! You tell him, right to his face!!
...Help me, Knowledgeable Himeko!
D: Oda-senseeei, I looooooove you. Oda-senseeeeeeeei, marry meeeeeee and if not answer my questioooon okay first of all,Gold Rogerand Red-HairShanksseem pretty tough, but what aaare thebountiesplaced on their heaaads and another question will you marry meeeeeee.
O:"ODA FLYING CROSS CHOP"!!! KAPOW!! THE SBS IS OVER!! SEE YOU NEXT VOLUME!! YAAAH!!!
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 16.
D: To Oda-sensei, and all you readers out there!! We're going to have today's SBS started by the wildly popular "Ishi-20" (MD-20)! All right, Isshi-20, go ahead!
I: START THE OPERATION.
O:The operation?! Oh well, I guess I'll go ahead and start the...
D: Odacchi! Have no fear, for today, yes, today is the day you will start the SBS! So, are you ready?! Huh? Odacchi? Oda-chaaaaan! Ahh! There he is! ODA-CHA...AAH...AAAH...AAAACH--START THE SBS!!--OOOOO! OH NO, I SAID IT!!
O:Sneezes don't sound like that!
D:Oda-sensei! Good day! I have a quick question for you. Are the names "Kuina"(Rallidae)and "Tashigi"(Snipe)actually taken from the names of birds? Please tell us! By Bird Encyclopedia Checker.
O:That's right. More specifically, they are the names of birds that cannot fly. But just because they say a bird cannot fly, doesn't mean that it never will. After all, I saw a duck fly in an anime I watched when I was little, called "The Wonderful Adventures of Nils". By the way,Nojiko(Yellow Bunting) is a bird's name, too.
D: I couldn't help but notice something... On page 137 of Volume 15, the woman appears to have spring onions in her basket! Three of them! But the same lady later appears on page 162! Is it me, or does she have a bunch more of them? If she's got so many, does it mean they're having roasted onions for dinner? Or onion stew? Just tell me what she was going to cook!
First AppearanceSecond Appearance

O:Whaaat?! I am shocked, people. I seriously jumped out of my seat when I read this postcard, and this wasn't the only one. To tell you the truth, when we were drawing the chapter, my staff said, "Look, the onions multiplied", and I laughed, "Whatever, nobody will notice", but clearly the readers are not be trifled with! Let's see, the woman's name is Negikuma Maria (Onion-Bear Maria), age 43, housewife, and today was her eldest son's birthday. She wanted to bake a delicious onion cake for her son, so she was running about the town, gathering up onions wherever she could. So the answer to your question is "Onion Cake". Word is, it's horrendous.
D: I readVolume 15... and in it, Dr.Kurehasays not to forget about his sickness, but sickness is written additionally with furigana as "Happy". What does she mean? Please, tell me, Oda-shaaaaaaaan!! (Crying)
O:She's talking about how being sick reminds you of the happiness you take for granted when you're not sick.
Kureha:Don't you forget about THAT sense of happiness just now!
D: Hey! Monkey D. Luffy! I'm the one who's gonna be the Pirate King! You got a problem with that, Pirate King?!
O:All right, everybody, let's all be a Pirate King! Hey, wait!! Okay, next.

D: I am Jim Joel Satou!! And I have a question.
IF I EATLUFFY, CAN I BECOME AGOMU HUMAN?!
O:You'd get food poisoning.

D: I thought of a catchphrase for One Piece.
"Friends and enemies, they're all weirdos".
O:"Readers and author, they're all weirdos".
Wait, no, the author is normal!

D: Oda-sensei!! Those birthdays (inVolume 15) were way too convenient! I want to have a word with their parents! HOWEVER! Who areLuffy,Zoro, andSanji's parents?!
O:Ahhhh... did I really take the easy way out? I guess you're right... I just made them up as jokes, based on their personalities. You reallycan'tchoose a birthday over such trivial reasoning... I'll reflect on my thoughtlessness...

D: What areVivi-chan andChopper's birthdays? Are they February 2 for Vivi and December 24 for Chopper?
O:YES, PERFECT! BWAHAHAHA, I LOVE IT!!
Those are Vivi and Chopper's birthdays!! Any complaints?! I'm not listeniiiiiing!! AHAHAHAHAHA!!
D: What kind of spot-billed duck is aSUPER spot-billed duck?
O:You meanKaroo? Well, he's an amazing spot-billed duck. He's huge, he has no webbed feet (land-walking type), and most importantly, he has teeth when he eats. Karoo's awesome!
D: Hello. I have just one thing I need to say. Please take a GOOD look at theBlack Den Den Mushiwhen its lid is on. After you answer exactly WHAT that thing is supposed to be, you may go ahead to the next question.
O:Uhhh... I... I don't know? I don't remember drawing it, exactly... but looking at it, it seems like poop to me... like a big twisty turd pile... (refer to Volume 15, p. 31)
D: Odacchi, you are amazing. You made up your own letter. You know what I mean. That "thing" on page 180 of Volume 15. How are you supposed to pronounce that? Please tell me.
FromVolume 15, Page 180.
O:ぴº. This is how you sound it out. Without letting your lips touch, you must explosively let out a deep breath and stick your chin out at the same time. Ready, set, ぴº!!
Well? Did it work?
(In Japan, the sound "Pi" is usually written ぴ)
D: Hello, nice to meet you. When I saw this Q&A Corner in your books, I wanted to write my own postcard, and "find some sign of Oda-sensei's playfulness!" But then I couldn't find any. Everyone else is good at that.
So here's my question. What should my question be about?
O:Are you totally cracked?!! SBS IS OVER. SEE YOU NEXT VOLUME!!!
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 17.
O: Before I start the SBS, I present the CMC (Chotto Machigae Chatta, "A Little Mistake") Corner!! This is for anyone who bought the first printing ofVolume 16. It said thatChopper's name was "Tony-Tony Chopper", but that was a mistake on my part. It's really supposed to be "Tony Tony Chopper", so please try to remember that as you read it. What?! You don't care?! Oh well, now that you mention it, it doesn't really change the name at all. And now, THE SBS...
D: Hello, Oda-sensei. It seems that lately, everyone wants to call out the title at random. Well, I'm one of them. But I'm sure you would like to say it as well. So why don't we split it halfway? Let's go! "START THE SB".
O: "S".Ah... HUUHHHH...?!!
D: WHERE IS THE OKAMA WAY? Is it my house?[1]
O:Hmmm. Where? That's a difficult question... since it IS the "path of those who have opened their eyes".I THINK IT COULD EXIST ANYWHERE <3.... AAAH!!

D: ToOda-sensei. The giantsDorryandBrogy's helmets look an awful lot like the Celts' horned helmets and the Verden-era (I forgot when) Swedish crested-helmets. Am I right?[1]
O:Yes you are. The giant "Warriors ofElbaph"s image came from my original love for those pirates of the north, the "Vikings". So you are correct.
ALL HAIL THEIR VALOR!
D: Oda-sensei!!! OHHHAAAAAAA!!!
O:OHHHAAAAAAAAA!!! (Playing along).

D: I have a question. IsMomooa "Sea King"? One of my friends says "He's a Sea King!!", but I don't know...[2]
O:Momoo? To be precise, Momoo is classified as a "Sea Beast". It's the same thing in "One Piece" as what we call sea-dwelling mammals in our world, like seals or whales. Therefore, simply think of "Sea Kings" as giant, non-mammalian animals living in the sea.

D: Does One Piece have an official home page?[2]
O:Hmmm. Maybe, maybe not. Not specifically for One Piece, but there is a Jump page, and in there is a One Piece corner. The name of the webpage is "Pop Web Jump", so if you run a search for that, you should be able to find it.
D: Please listen to me, Oda-sensei. When I was standing around reading in a bookstore earlier, I realized something. I thought, is there some kind of connection betweenVivi-chan and ancient Egypt? Vivi-chan's full name is Nefertari Vivi, and her father's name isNefertari Cobra. In ancient Egypt, the name "Nefertari" meant "the most beautiful" or "the most wonderful", and therefore was often affixed to the portraits of queens and princesses. Also,Arabastais a sand kingdom, and her father's name is Cobra. I'll be really happy if I got it right. If I am, please acknowledge me as a rival to Knowledgeable Himeko. By Maimai.[2]
O:I see... Is that what it means? Nefertari, I mean. Nice. I most certainly used ancient Egypt as a model for Arabasta, so I just flipped through a book about Egypt and picked out names that sounded nice. I see... I picked out a good name (for a person). Okay! I'll acknowledge it! You are a rival to Knowledgeable Himeko!! I see...
D: How is a volume of comics created? Like, where exactly does the "name" get decided, and everything? Please tell me.[3]
O:The "name". Ah yes. I do the "Great Name Introduction" in these books sometimes. I'll give a full explanation of the order it goes in. The entire schedule we go through to get this book into your hands.
Space out dejectedly.
Talk to the people at Jump about what will be in the next chapter.
Think about what will actually go in the chapter.
Write a "name" on a blank piece of paper.
Fax the name to the boss. If he doesn't like it, we fight, or I rename it.
Call the assistants over to my house, and we go nuts for 2 or 3 days. We draw the master copy.
Jump goes on sale around the country.
Now I talk with the high-tech boss Y-san about the cover of the book and how to color it.
Draw the cover pages and make theSBS.
It's already complete a full month before it's available in stores. The end.
So this is basically how it works. Well, this is my schedule, but all artists have their own pace. Just consider trying to draw before coming up with a name for your master copy is like manga artists' block.
D: Hello, Oda-sensei. I am "Always Serious Aiko-chan!!" In Volume 15 you suggested that we write fan letters to Toei Animation. I would like to, but I don't know what the address is. Please Oda-sensei, tell us with your Heart and Spirit.
O:Okay. I've gotten a lot of postcards like this, so I got permission from Toei Animation. Here it is:
(An image of the address)
Please send fan letters to the One Piece animators at this address. Even a single postcard with a one line sentence from the viewers (In my case it would be readers) cheers them up and gives them great energy, really. Sometimes I get letters to the animators, but I wish that you would send those sentiments directly to the people who created it.

D: Um, it seems like wheneverDalton-san, the Captain of theDrumCivilian Defense Force, is asked a question, he says something extra after it that doesn't matter at all. Is it because he's a nice person?[4]
O:He does certainly say some unnecessary things. But I bet it's because he's just a good guy. Oh, and he likes chestnuts, by the way.
(Two images of two scenes from the manga, with the following text).
Dalton:It's a lakeshore town further north of here. And also... skating is popular there.

Dalton:There's no denying that she has skill. But she is a rather... strange old woman... She's almost 140 years old.
Sanji:A... 140?!! And she's alive?!
Dalton:Well... yes... she does like those dried plums.
No questions, just a little game made by 'Meso-chan from Hokkaido'
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 18.
D: Hey, you guys who always start the SBS!! Have you ever thought of Oda-sensei's feelings?! Sheesh!!! Oh... sorry, Oda-sensei. Please say, "Please say 'Start the SBS' today." Huh? Are you sure? Oh, but I couldn't. Very well, if you insist... START THE SBS!
O:Hey... I didn't say anything.
D: Oda-sensei, please settle down. Now, this is going to be extremely difficult for me to tell you but... YOUR FLY IS OPEN!!!! I'm so embarrassed!!
O:Aaah! Crap. My pants' zipper was down this entire time? Okay, I'll just take them off to make sure that I never have to endure anything as embarrassing as that again. Clank, rustle... okay. Continue the SBS.
D: When Dr. Kureha says, "My secret to youth?", what exactly is her secret? My senility is supposed to get much worse about now...
O:Your senility...? You're only 13. But anyways, her answer would be, "BEING HAPPY!!" She sure is living it up right now.
D: IF YOU WANT AFRODA-KUN'S LUNCH MONEY BACK, PRINT THIS IN THE SBS. from Grapemint Tanisugi.
O:So it was you!!
O: I'd like to take the time to make a little explanation for a certain group of my readers. In Volume 17, there was a character named Chessmarimo. He is a combination of the characters "Chess" and "Kuromarimo", and when he talks, it's supposed to sound like both of them speaking at the same time. In order to represent that in the manga, I stacked the letters on top of each other... But, oh how they came... A flood of complaints. From the mothers of small children. "This book is misprinted!!" They said that to the editors at the company. I'm extremely sorry. Please, mothers, accept it for what it is!! Just read the book instead. Chessmarimo is HILARIOUS, ISN'T HE?!! (completely unapologetic)
D: I have a question, Ei-chan... on panel 6 of Volume 17, page 176, what is Chopper doing? It just looks like the "Hen na ojisan"* to me!! Is that right? Please tell me!!
O:Oh darn... I've been found out.
D: Hey -> Oda-sense -> One Piece -> is just sooo cool!! When I was -> in class -> I accidentally drew BUGGY -> in my notebook! I have -> "Accidentally Draw Buggy" disease! Oh yeah -> when Shanks and Buggy were young, they were arguing about which is colder, the North Pole or the South Pole -> Which one's right? Okay, goodbye.
O:Ahh, the flashback from Volume 3. The answer is, the South Pole. The Arctic is not a continent, it's just a mass of ice. Land is colder than water, so the Antarctic is correct. So Shanks was right. However, the South Pole is not the coldest place in the world.
D: MAAAAAAAHAHAHAHA, AIN'T YOU A HIPPO!
O:Ugh. Shut up. Enough.
D: Hey, Oda-sensei. When Dr. Hiruluk got naked. WHY did there JUST SO happen to be snow obscuring the view of his MOST SPECIAL area...?by Ame no Kawa
O:If it didn't just so happen to obscure the view, you'd see his weenie.
D: Hello! Odacchi! I've noticed something incredible!! About Mr. 2 Bon Kurei. Why Mr. 2 Bon Kurei has that codename! The men have a number, and the women have events... so Mr. 2 is the male part, and Bon Kurei (Bonkure, the end of the Bon festival.) is the female part, because he's an okama, right?
O:That's right. The female agents' names are, in order, the happiest events of the year. So first;
1/1, so two pointer fingers (doublefinger)
#0 is All-sunday (all sundays of the year).#1 is Doublefinger (New Years)#2 is Mr. 2 Bon Kurei (Bonkure)#3 is Golden Week (Golden Week, a week off in May.)#4 is Merry Christmas
...and that's how it works. I seem to have confused everyone with Double-finger.
D: And here is the question. Nami's sister is Nojiko. So what is her mother's name? Yes, you, the mangaka over there.
O:Okay! Umm... uhhhhh... let's see... U... Utsubo. UTSUBOKO.
D: Bzzzzt, wrong. The answer is Nobuko. I'm sorry. Really, truly sorry. Take the challenge again next time!
O:Awwwwwwwwww!! Nobuko. I see. One syllable different than Nojiko... Aha... I get it...... NO I DON'T!!!
D: HEY, ODACCHI. WHEN YOU GET DOWN TO IT, JUST HOW LITTLE SENSE OF DIRECTION DOESZOROHAVE? I want an equation with x and y, dammit!!By Zoro Inochi
O:Ummm... lesseee... x... plus... y. Okay, next. (Perfect)
D: My husband and I are huge fans of the "Hiking Bear". But we're curious about something. What happens if one forgets the "salute" (mountain-climbing manners)? We're so curious, we can't have any children!
O:Yes, that would be a serious problem... What I'm going to tell you is extremely important, so PLEASE remember it. Hiking Bears are bears that love mountains. They simply cannot allow people with bad manners onto the mountain. The punishment is this: sitting in correct Japanese style for one hour. It's very difficult. The people who suffer this have severely cramped legs, and they all say the same thing. "Please kill me, now". But the bears will not allow it. But that's what they get for insult the beloved mountain... (From the "Drum Kingdom Animal Encyclopedia")
D: Good evening. This is a question for Oda-sensei. "Möwe" (Seagull) onMorgan's chin, and "Krieg" (battle). German seems to show up a lot in One Piece. But do actual pirates have much to do with Germany?
O:Hmmm, probably not... In this case, I just chose words that "sounded" right to me. For the Krieg arc, "battle" was actually the main theme, so I chose a word about battle that would be easy to remember.
D: HAPPY NEW YEAR. Hey!! You!! Oda!! Can you beat my gorilla? THE SBS IS OVER.
O:HEY!! What the hell?!! Okay... fine then, see you next volume. What? Gorilla? Nah, I couldn't beat a gorilla. They are the mightiest of primates, after all. Oh, but they like bananas... maybe I could... set up a trap... and make him slip on the peel...
Nitoryu for translating.
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 19.
D: Hello, Ei-chan. I think I'm in love with Miss Merry Christmas' way of shortening her comments to say things as quickly as possible. And so, I'd like to start this one like Miss Merry Christmas would.
"S...!" (Start the SBS!!)
O:WHAAAAAAAAAT?!!
D:Oda-sensei! Please draw the six main characters with your left hand![1]
O:...This is wasting enough space as it is already so can I just stop at three?
D: I've been wondering for a while now, how old areViviandChopper? Vivi looks to be about the same age as the rest, but Chopper just seems like a kid! Please tell me their ages![1]
O:First, Vivi is 16. Chopper is a human reindeer, so as a human he would be 15. Yeah. That sounds about right.
D: What would happen if I ordered "Fried rice but with no rice!!" at a Chinese restaurant?!
O:Go try it and find out. Then order some boiled tofu without the tofu. Okay?! What does this have to do with the SBS?
D: I have a question, sensei. How old areDorryandBrogy?[2]
O:Ah, good question. First of all, giants live to be around 300 years old, but they mature as half as slow as humans. So they'd only be considered "adults" around 40. When Dorry and Brogy came toLittle Gardenand started fighting, they were 58 years old (29 in human years). And they've been fighting for 100 years, so they are 158. But they'll live to be 300, so they've still got a lot of fight in them left. They're just a little older than Dr.Kureha.
D: What do you think?
(Really bad drawn face)
A chick.
O:Oooooh... very nice. Next question.
D: Hellllo! Aaah, my nose won't stop running. Aaah, it finally stopped. Oda-san, I've been wondering about something. Something about Blue-Nosed Chopper. What does the X-mark on his hat mean? Aaaah, my nose is running again.[2]
O:Okay, then. So about your running nose... Whoops, not that. I mean about the X-mark on Chopper's hat. It's actually the same as that thing. You know, the cross mark you see in hospitals. It's just tilted diagonally. Oh, and I don't think many people noticed this, but Hiriluk's hair was also the same shape. The shape of a hospital cross.
No questions. Just a little game made by a reader.
D: Yo, Ei-chan. Got a question. Does that markMiss Goldenweekdraws mean anything? Couldn't she just slap the colors on him? Tell me, man![3]
O:Yup. It does. It does have a meaning.
See! "So what?" seems to be how you're feeling but... Hey, it's better than nothing.
D: Did you go to college, sensei? Also, in middle and high school, did the clubs you entered have anything to do with manga or drawing? I would like to be a manga artist in the future, too. (I'm in 8th grade and worried about my future. Please respond!!)[3]
O:Well, I dropped out after one year of college. Also, I've never had any sort of art or drawing lessons in my life. There's a lot of other mangaka who're like that. I'm going to give you a serious answer because it was a serious question: Relying on someone else, no matter what special school you went to, is the most dangerous thing you can do.
D: Hey!! Oda!! Sensei... Try THIS challenge!! Say "Roronoa" 10 times fast!! Roronoa, Roronoa, Rorororoa, Nononoa, Roronoa, Roroano... NEXT!!
O:Sheesh, you can't even say it yourself, you bum. Oh well, lemme try. NONODO... *CHOMP*!! (bit my tongue). OGHAY, NEKTHT!! (bloody).
Another game made by a reader.
D: Oda-sensei!! I found something rather surprising about thedelivery manon pages 117-118 ofVolume 18!! It says "Half-Boiled" on his T-shirt. But!! On page 69!! Those are the same people, right? And on his T-shirt, it says, "Full-Boiled"!! What's up with him?! Tell me!![4]
O:HE HAS MATURED.
D: Are the "Den Den Mushi" animals or machines?
O:They're animals. Insects.
O:Since being raised by humans gets them plenty of food, they don't mind being used and tamed.
D: Hey! Didn' ah see yer fase some'ere's befor? Ain't you dat lil' Eiichiro Oda! Hoooey, yuh done grown up big!! Heh?! Ah look cyute, yah sey? Sheeucks, yore embarasin' me!! Yeh now, I gots some onyins and potatoes, y'all shuld come on bah and help to eat it! -Kesen Numakomachi-
O:Y'all speaken that Miyagi-accent too much, ain' nowun kin unnerstan' whatcha be sayeen!! -General of Higo-
D: Oda-san, among theErimaki Runnerson page 110 of Volume 18, one of them doesn't have anything hanging from his neck. Why not? Tell me if you can. Byecha!
-4th Grade Ancient History Professor-[5]
O:That's right. He's the only one without any orders to carry. So he's thinking, "Huh? Why am I running?" which comes out as "Eh?" You can tell the Baroque Works is obviously going to fire him.
D: Nice to meet you, Oda-sensei. I'll just get right to the point. Crocus-san has got the two S's backwards in the Volume 18 SBS! AHAHAHAHAHA!! What's up with that? (seriously) Well, Crocus? HMMMMM?? -From Akiko-
O:OH DEAR!! WELP, SEE YOU NEXT VOLUME!! GOODBYE!!!
(We noticed before it went to press, but it was too much of a pain to fix...).
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 20.
D: HELLLOOOO to all you good little children reading the SBS Corner! Well, you sound enthusiastic. A nice friend of ours has come today. Here he is, "Eiichiro-kun". (applause) Thank you for coming. Why don't we have Eiichiro-kun announce the title of the Corner, okay? Go ahead.
O:(Yes, this day has finally come. I can start the SBS).
SPLIT THE ESPANOLA.
(Dammit, I screwed up!)
D: (Note: the question was written in Chinese language)
O:Pardon? Hmm... Oh I see. It's a letter from a One Piece fan in Taiwan. Well, since Japanese also uses Chinese characters, I think I can make out the meaning. It's PROBABLY asking this:
"Why do all the crew members other thanNamiwear only one outfit?"
There is a reason for that, you know. First of all, they definitely have many changes of the same outfit. And also, Nami doesn't give them much allowance. Stuff like that.
D: Oda-sensei, out of the 5 crew membersLuffy,Zoro,Usopp, Nami, andSanji, what animals do you think they most resemble?
O:
But there's one thing I AM confident about.
I THINKCHOPPERIS A REINDEER. (DOOOON)
No questions. Just a game made by a reader.
D: Why doesBuggynot bleed when he splits his body up?
O:C-come on... don't be difficult. He would be too scary if he started gushing blood everywhere.
D: I have secret question to discuss with you, Master Oda (this is a normal letter). Please (x10) tell me your home address. I hope this finds you in good health, kuhahahaha.
O:Okay. Post number 202... whoa. If I told you that, you'd be ringing my doorbell and running away every day.
D:Tashigi's age, height and weight please!
O:Tashigi? Tashigi is 21. Surprisingly adult, isn't she? She is 170 cm tall. And she is a lady, so no weight for you.
D: Question, Odacchi!Aceate theMera Mera no Miso he can...
O:The answer is(1). But his secret move "Hiken" (Fire Fist) is a skill where he raises his "firepower" and turns his fist into a huge flame, so it ends up looking more like (2).
D: THE SBS HAS STARTED. (past tense).
O:Hahaha! Yeah right... Whoa!! It HAS started!! (slow-witted).
D: One of my friends said to me, "How can you read SHOUNEN Jump when you're a GIRL?!" But I answered him by saying, "What's wrong with a girl buying and reading Shounen Jump? Am I a criminal? I was a man in my former life!!!" (probably...).
O:I see. So you had one of those quarrels, "Pen Name Nishi-chan". But never fear, damn you! It's okay, dammit! 'Cause besides, Shounen Weekly Jump is a boys' magazine with a 30% female readership, to tell you the truth. Basically, out of every 10 Jump readers, 3 of them are girls. And that percentage carries over into One Piece readership as well. Just make some simple calculations and assume you have 1,200,000 friends around the country. If you understand the zeal of a young boy's soul, then of course, boys, girls, old guys and ladies can all bring it on! Come at us, dammit!
D: Oda-sensei! There was a music question in my finals! And on the question was about "Bach". Apparently, historians label Bach as a "Baroque" artist... So maybeIgaram(who looks like Bach) + Baroque style = "Baroque Works!!" So... Am I right?
O:Yup. That's right. It's going to be extremely difficult for me to explain this one. Baroque was a style of art, literature and music prevalent in 17th century Europe. In my own very simple description, it was absurdly extravagant. Excessively ostentatious. Therefore, I made the Baroque Works a collection of characters that are each over-the-top in their own ways.
D: I have a request. The other day, I found a White Walky (aka Hairy Hippo) on the side of the road. Please raise it in your house, Oda-sensei.From, New York Cocoa
O:NO THANK YOU.
D: This is a question from a Tokyo-area 28 year old male (working in the manga editor field). I would like to know the names of all theSuper Spot-Billed Duck Troopsmembers. Oda-sensei, I simply MUST know. T-they're so cute... I know this must be very hard for you, but please... do it for me.
Super Spot-Billed Duck Troops members.
O:Hey! Hey!! Hold on just a dang tootin' minute. I know who you are. You're that former One Piece editor with a weakness for cute things, working for a certain Jump editorial department, Da-asa or Asada or whatever, right?! You, sir, are relentless. And now you're sending business questions to the SBS via email?! This is supposed to be sacred ground for my readers... ah, well. Oh but, thanks for helping me out for those 4 years. In any case, since OTHER people have asked this too, I'll answer it. The bottom row, starting from the left, isCowboy,Bourbon Jr.,Karoo,Kentauros, andHikoichi. The top row isStompandIvan X. That's all. I had the names all established, but putting them all in the manga would be too hard to figure out, so I decided not to.
D: Okay, there's something I need to ask you about, Odacchi. I was readingWANTED!(Odacchi's one-shot collection) today, and I was wondering, doesn't it seem like a bunch of your characters pick their noses a lot? (P.N. Pleasure)
O:Yeah, they do. Pick, pick, picky. So you wonder why... well, doesn't everyone pick their nose? The other mangakas just have their cameras pointed away when it happens. If you don't pick your nose... your boogers would collect up!! Oh dear... another dirty topic. Printing this kind of stuff makes all the female readers cringe. It'll happen again. But the guys laugh their asses off! Right?! Okay, next.
D: To Oda-sensei. Hello! I simply must ask you a very serious question. On page 94 ofOne PieceVol. 18, the "Spiders Cafe" looks an awful lot like the "Bagdad Cafe", directed byPercy Adlon. Did you use that as inspiration? I really like that movie, so please tell me if it's true.
O:Wow, I'm impressed. 15 years old and you like that movie? That's right. I just loved the atmosphere of that movie so much. But that kind of refined coolness is so out of place in a shounen manga, I was really the only one who knew what it was from. Anyone with good taste should watch it. It'll stick in your heart. "Baghdad Cafe".
D: Oda-sensei, I went to a flower shop, and they were selling "Crocus" flower seeds. Does that have any connection toCrocus-san?
O:It means "trust" in the language of flowers.
D: All the guys at school talk about is "Nami's chest"! Please scold them for me!!
O:Ahhh... but... Well, there's no age written on this postcard, but judging from the writing, I'd say you're probably in middle school. And you know guys in middle school. They're all little pervs. They can't help it. I really don't have the right to scold them. (hey).
D: WHAT HAPPENS IF A PERSON EATS A HITO HITO NO MI?
O:I suppose I should say they "BECOME HUMAN". Uh, I guess you could say that means like becoming an adult, or finding your true spirit or something. So basically, people will live more human-like. Well. I guess you could say that. Or not. Basically, not. Goodbye. (runs away).
D: Oda-chan!! Today is the day for you to answer this!! What about Sanji's left eye?!
O:There it is... again. I get a lot of these. So many, in fact, that I usually just ignored them... all right. I will finally answer one of One Piece's 7 great mysteries, "Sanji's Left Eye"!! Come on out, Sanji!!
Sanji:Hey. You called? What? You want me to show you my left eye?! THAT'S what you called me for? Honestly... fine, fine. You wanna see it? There you go, take a good look. See?
O:WHOAAAAA!!! FOR REAL?!! WOW...!! THE SBS IS OVER!! SEE YOU NEXT TIME!!
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 21.
D: Hello. In Volume 19, someone started the SBS the way Miss Merry Christmas would start it. So I'd like to start it the way Mr. 4 would do it. -Black Den Den Mushi Fan Club Vice President-
"SSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSS... (to be continued)"
O:Too long. Sorry.
D: Hyello. Listen, there's something I've been thinking hard about. Whenever you begin the SBS Corner, you usually say "Start the SBS", right? That's so boring. SO... I thought up THIS! "ESSUUUUUU!" What do you think? It's a rip-off of "Ohhaaa" (ohayou, or good morning)! So use it!
O:Hey hey hey. No, no, no no no! No one will use an imitation like that! You need a... uh... a bit more originality! Right, everyone? "ESSUUUUUU!" (full-face smile).
D: In the SBS fromVolume 19, someone said "Draw all 6 crew members with your left hand", but you only drewLuffy,ZoroandNami. Draw the other 3.
O:H... here. P-please, give me a break.
D: They don't showOne Pieceon TV where I live... How can we stand for such atrocities? Please (x2), I don't care if they're just re-runs or whatever, just have them broadcast here where I live! Though it's probably an impossible request...
O:It shouldn't be impossible. I've received quite a lot of these letters for a while, but I can't do anything about it. After checking with the animation company, as of Dec. 4, 2001,One Pieceis shown on 27 stations nationwide, and it's just started running in Taiwan. There are three prefectures in which it doesn't air, however: Aomori, Yamaguchi and Oita. But even in these areas, there are some people who say they can watch it. They must be people who live close enough to other prefectures to pick up the neighbouring prefectures' broadcast signals. Here's what you can try. One Piece is a program on the Fuji TV network, so write a letter saying "I want to see One Piece" to the Fuji station in your prefecture. If the station hears a large outcry, they may consider it. I know there's a lot of other anime you can't see unless you live near Tokyo. I grew up in Kyushu, so I know your pain. Damn. Tokyo's pretty mean, huh?!
D: To Eiichirou Oda-sensei-sama: [OMITTED]
-by Those Who Say Meguko-
O:Yes, uhhhh. Well, why don't I get right down to it and answer this question? Uhhhhh.... Uhhhhhh... Yes. Uhhhhhhh... Yes. Uhhh...
No questions, just a little game made by a reader.
D: What are "Orange Pekoe" and "Apple Tea"?
O:Oh I'm sure you can figure out what Apple Tea is, right? It's a type of tea. And orange pekoe is another kind of tea. It's true that all the members of the BW like different kinds of tea.Mr. 3likes "Earl Grey",Miss Goldenweeklikes "green tea",Mr.5likes "gunpowder tea", and Miss Valentine likes "lemon tea", and so on. They drink it at a lot of different places. But Mr. 2 likes "takopa".

D: Nice to meet you, Oda-sensei. I noticed something when I was re-reading the books. I'm talking about this person on the left inVolume 18, page 162, 2nd panel, and this person on the right in Volume 19, page 15, 5th panel. Are they the same person?
O:Yes. That's right. You're quite correct. If you look at the current "Rebellion", you'll see a lot of members of the "Sand-Sand Clan" in it. Well spotted.
It's pretty easy to tell when they're lined up like this, right? Oh, and just to confuse you a little, most of the people in the Rebellion callKoza"Koza-san", but sometimes you hear "Koza" or "Leader". Those people were probably former Sand-Sand Clan members.
D: Oda-sensei! I was astonished when I read Volume 19! Because in the first panel of page 104,Samis among the people running about! Why is he in Alabasta? Why is he drunk again? Tell me!!
-by Takashima 192-
O:Oooh. I was surprised, too. I totally forgot I had drawn him. That's him all right, it certainly is.Chapter 171, page 104. Why is he there? Listen up... Today was his second daughter's wedding. Sam's wife left him to raise all of their daughters the summer his eldest turned 8. His second daughter was a delinquent. Quite the troublemaker... They fought often, and there were days when she ran away from home. Today, she is being married. Though he puts up a strong front by saying, "Finally I can rest easy now that you're gone!", he actually feels a little lonely but happy for his daughter. And so he said, "I can't stay sober tonight!" and he drank and drank and walked and drank, and before he knew it, he was in the middle of Alabasta. The people around him were making all kinds of noise so he started yelling too, though for a different reason than the other citizens.
D: Ummm, Sensei, on TV I heard someone say, "The next big thing will be Buggy underwear". Would you like to buy some Buggy underwear, Oda-sensei?
O:No.
Another game made by a reader.
O: Ahem. I've been receiving a ton of questions about the anime so I'm going to tell you how much I'm involved in it, to either answer those questions or just to let you know.
1. First of all, what I MUST tell you is that I am a manga artist so I don't make anime. What I can do is help out with the character designs for anime-original episodes. Nothing major. So basically, the One Piece world I've created in my manga is entrusted to others to be adapted in the anime.
2. And so, while on that topic, I want to introduce to you... "THE" UDA KOUNOSUKE! You'll see his name in every episode during the opening credits roll. He's listed as the "Series Director". That's basically "head director". Pretty cool, eh? "Head director". (DOOON!).
3. For the OP anime, there are 7 directors including Uda-san that take turns making episodes because you can't make a 30-minute episode in just one week. Every episode's director is listed at the end of the ending credits. And the person who organizes all of their work is, you guessed it, THE UDA KONOSUKE (whistle!).
4. If his opinions and mine do not meet, Luffy instantly ceases to be Luffy and the world becomes entirely different. Even if I create the most heart-wrenching moment in the manga, if the anime's "directing" is wrong, it becomes a forgettable scene. But the reason that doesn't happen, and in fact, becomes even more memorable in the anime, is thanks to Uda-san and his crew of Director-Fighters, for understanding the world of OP so well and their directing skills.
5. By "directing", I'm talking about music, sfx, voice acting and character expressions, so I'm truly grateful to all the people involved in the anime. Oh, by the way, my very own editor Habu-yan does the "scenario checking".
6. All in all, what I really wanted to point out were the credits that you audience probably ignore. There are a lot of hard working people on those credit rolls, and it'd be nice if you could become familiar with some of those names as well.
7. I know I made him sound very formal earlier, but Uda-san is really a cool, friendly man. Sometimes when I have a meeting with the anime staff, I go out and have lunch or dinner with Uda-san and the producers (they're fun, too). Usually though, I just leave the anime work up to them and enjoy it as a viewer, just like all of you do. I even cry sometimes.
8. And that concludes this SBS. See you next volume.
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 22.
D: When I bought some gyudon (beef bowl) for this weird guy with glasses laying out in the street, he gave me a weird wheel and a "how to hypnotize" paper. And so, since you've been having trouble starting the SBS lately, I'm going to hypnotize you so that you can do it just right this time. Okay, now, watch this wheel verrrry carefully. When I say one, two, Janko you will start the SBS no matter what. Here we go! One, two, Jankooooooooo!
"RAAAAAAAAAAH!! START THE SBS!!"
O:YOU GOT HYPNOTIZED!!
D:Oda-sensei!! I-!! Lu-lu-lu-lu-lu-lu-lu-!! LOVEOne Piece! I go to the store every day!! And say, "Is it here yet?"!! ...AND!! Therefore!! Would you!! Mind!! Telling me!! The release!! Date for!! The next voluuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuume?!!!!?!-by Shironeko Pirate Crew-
O:Huh?! But it's such a pain. Oh, fine. For thetankōbonpeople, I'll tell you the rule for which months are release months so you can mark it on your calendars. One Piecevolumescome out in a repeating order that goes, "2 months", "2 months", then "3 months". So if you say, "There haven't been any for 3 months!" can you tell when the next two will come out?! Good.
O-II: Oh yeah, I forgot. I noticed two mistakes of my own in Volume 21. So I'll correct them for you now. First of all, the answer to the Culprit Quiz right before Chapter 190. I forgot to include the answer. It's "Crocus-san". The other one is the title art for the SBS. I drew Crocus and Laboon for Volume 18, but then I drew them again. I was just under a spell of Crocus Fever in Volume 21. What's that? Am I reflecting on my mistakes? Sure sure, I am, don't worry. (*picking his nose*). Okay, let's continue the SBS.
D: Oda-sensei, I've been wondering about something. What country areLuffyand the others from? In Social Studies class, we learned that a Japanese pirate is called a "wakou". Is that like a direct interpretation into Japanese? Or is this manga completely unique in that respect? Please tell me. -PN Kuroman-
Japanese Pirate (as I picture him)
O:Hmmm. First of all, Luffy's crew is all "No-Nationality Men". You can't say what country they come from. Now about, "wakou". Yes. A long time ago, there were men in Japan called "wakou" who were basically "pirates". This "Wakou" would get into their boats and raid the Korean peninsula and Chinese mainland. Sometimes in your textbooks, it talks about "expeditionary forces" to Korea, but those were really pirates. They were there to loot and plunder and all that. Yeah, they were bad guys. There's also another famous group of people around the Seto Inland Sea called "Murakami Suigun (Navy)" who were basically pirates. They have been a big influence on Japan throughout history, though they don't get widespread recognition. A long time ago, I was researching the differences between "wakou" and "suigun", but there were "suigun" who were called "wakou", so I got the impression that there's no need to even draw a distinction. In short, Japan has had a lot of "pirates".
D: WHAT'S THE SPEED LIMIT ON THEOKAMA WAY?-By Mr. Two Bon Curry-
O:If you go over 300 Mascaras per hour, you can expect to be Mascarrested. (I'm good, aren't I?).
D: THERE WAS A MYSTERIOUS VILLAGE ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE TUNNEL.
O:Okay, next question.
D: Wait, wait, wait. Bon Kurei! Yes, you. Listen, I don't like your travesty of the dance! You can't even do the most basic of basics, the port de bras! There are no hands shaped that way. And start off by tying your toe shoes correctly! You twist it around your ankle like this. Twist, see? And about 2 cm higher. And for your "Swan Arabesque", you're not raising your leg!! You're much too green to pull off any At-ti-tude Turns. Go back and study one more time! And shave your leg hair while you're at it! -by 10 Years of Ballet Experience-
O:Uhhh, I just called for him... Here he is.
Mr. 2: Stoooooooop joking aroooooooound!! 'roooooooound!! Shave?! My legs?! NOOOOOOO WAAAAYYYYYYYYYYY!!! If I shave my legs-!! I am nothing!!! Moi = Leg Hair, understand?! SO!! Are you shaving ME?! Would you shave MYSELF?!! And so what? 10 years of ballet...?! Well, aren't youuuuu special?! BUT!! I have had 20 years of Okama Kenpo!! Any problems?! If you do, then I'm gonna spin-?!! I'm spinning!! Spinning, spinning!! I am spinninnnnnng!!
O:...There you have it. An idiot on stage.
D: Hello, Oda-sensei! I am called Enari-kun. Why doesVivialways pull onUsopp's nose?
O:Hmmm. Uh... for example. Let's say there's a "saucepan" right here. Now, where would you hold the saucepan? ...See what I'm saying? You hold it on the long thin part that sticks out, right? And that's the, uhh... the mentality behind it. He's a very portable person. You know. Kind of a... one-size-fits-all type of deal.
No questions, just a little game made by a reader.
D: I found him!! "Pah"!! "Ih"!! "I"!! "Fah"!! "Ruh"!! "Ah"!! "Hah"!! "Weh"!! "Duh"!! ....ugh... (Translation)Pandaman!! It's Pandaman!! I found Pandaman running away!! (First panel on page 60, volume 20) Also, I have a question. W, where does Pandaman live?? Does Pandaman like traveling??
O:That last one sounded really strained. Are you okay? So, Pandaman's residence. I've only heard the rumors. Some say he's a pretty big-shot kinda guy. On a certain island, that is. There's a reason why he's chased around, which is why he appears running in a lot of different places... I can't tell you too much, or they'll come to get me too... AAAH!! IT'S THEM!! (runs away).
D: Hello, Oda-sensei. I have a question. WhenChoppereats theRumble Ball, he can use seven different forms. Yet, he has more than seven. Why is that?
O:That's incorrect. Look, there ARE seven. No more.
From left to right Beast Form: Walk, Horn, Guard. Human/Beast: Brain, Jumping,Arm. Human Form: Heavy
There are seven up there. His normal "beast form" is Walk Point. His "human/beast form" is Brain Point. And his "human form" is Heavy Point. So you see, the Rumble Ball is a pill that basically adds four new forms for him to use. Does it make more sense now?
D: Ding-dong. "Ah, Odacchi? I know this work must be tough, so today I brought 8th grade Megu-chan to help you with your manuscript! No no, it's okay!! (th grade Megu-chan has a "5" in art class, and she wants to be a manga artist, so... PLOP (ink spilling)........ Oops, sorry! I'll be leaving now!!"
-by (th grade Megu-chan-
O: WHAT ARE YOU DOING?!! HEY!!! GET BACK HERE!!!
...WAIT... AT LEAST... USE SOME WHITE-OUT TO FIX IT... (WEAK).
D: If you look closely at the legendary Moving Crab in volume 19, you'll see that, in order to get it to run, Chopper seems to be pulling the sides of its mouth. Why is that? Please tell meeeee!!
-by Moomin-
O:That's right. The hard-to-master skill of manipulating a Moving Crab is to fully expose his right gums when you want to go right, and fully expose his left gums when you want to go left. In professional jargon, these are known as "right grin" and "left grin". When you want to go slowly, you have to use the "right half-grin" and "left half-grin" (also known as "right smirk" and "left smirk"). Also, if someone on board happens to tell a really bad joke, the Moving Crab's face will start twitching and you will be unable to control its speed. So exercise caution.
D: ODA EI-DONO. WHAT DOES THE "RAN" IN "GAKURAN" MEAN? (a gakuran is a kind of school uniform).
O:SHIRAN (I don't know). Huh?!... shiRAN? maybe... that "ran"... nah. Maybe... ra... ranou (egg yolk)... that... "ran"...oh!! Ranpaku (egg white)!! How's that?!!
D: Ah, a question for Oda-sensei. On the first panel of page 174,Volume 20, the scene whereMiss Merry Christmasdigs herself into the ground. It says "Hyu...", but the horizontal line is a fish. Is this another example of your playfulness, Oda-sensei? Please tell me x2.
O:Because it's the Mole Tempo "Mogugyo" (Gyo can mean fish in Japanese). Yeah. Well, why don't we try reading it aloud.
(1) raise your eyebrows as far up as you possibly can.
(2) look as straight up as possible without moving your face.
(3) extend your lower jaw. Ready, set... "HYU..."
Did you do it? Now show it to your friends and parents.
Your legend of idiocy begins!!
D: Why is it that whenNamiandMiss All Sundaywear miniskirts and move around a LOT, you never see inside their skirts (panties)? What color are their panties? Please tell me.
O:That's a dirty old man question. And yet you ask it so plainly and honestly. Almost as if you don't understand you asked anything bad... You really should stop... Though itispossible to imagine... InVolume 14, I'd say her bra looked pretty black... No, really, I should stop... I fear for my life.
D: Hello, Oda-sensei. So, what about next week's SBS? "Usopp Creates a Lie", "Luffy Gets a Marble Box", "Chopper's Nose Turns Red". Come back next week! Jan - Ken - Pon! Ahahahaha. And so, the SBS is over!
(by the President of the SBS-Ending Club, All-Bran Kiri).
O:Dammit!! I thought you were gonna show scissors!!
So I tried to catch you on that...!! CURSES!! I was SO SURE you were gonna show scissors!! Okay, see you next time. Dammit...
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 23.
D: Salutations, Oda-sensei. This is my first ever letter, but I'm afraid to say I can't draw, I can't come up with any humorous questions, nor can I ever meer Master Brogy. So please, if you will. Please allow me to at least say the words that everyone longs to say... Ahem.
START THE SBS!
Hehehe... That felt great!
P.S. I'm sure you get many such letters like these, but I assure you I'm serious.
O:Oh, of course. Feel free to do as you wish, sir. I am merely honored to have you read my work.
Now then, let's get this goddamn corner started already.
D: Ei-chaaaaan!!! Nice to meet you. Ei-chaaaaan!!!!! Who is that guy?!! You know, HIM!! That BW guy that got cut down by Sergeant MajorTashigiin the "Ignition" chapter!! Does that say "I LOVE MISS VALENTINE" on his back?! Whoa!! I have a rival!!! Does that mean there's aMiss Valentinefan club or something?! Let me in if there is!!! Please!
-by Miss Letters Day-
O:Hohoh. Very quick to spot that, weren't you? "Ignition" is chapter 206, so you spotted it on the very first page on the very first chapter of this volume. Now that's a dedicated fan. BW has over 2000 members in it, so you find all sorts. As there are guys who feel like rivals to the Number Agents, there are also guys that idolize them. There are fan clubs, too. If you want to join, send your name, address and age to theWhisky PeakAFC (Agent Fan Club)... Oh wait,Zorodestroyed it.
D: APOLOGIZE, ODA-CCHI! Apologize like you're "Super duper damn sorry!" For your marimo shenanigans! My name's Mariko so ever since about the 6th grade, everyone's been calling me as "Marimo". But then you just had to go and make up stuff like "Kuromarimo" and "Marimo Head"!! And once I entered middle school (during Chopper's arc), people started saying, "Hey Kuromarimo-mossa" WHEN TALKING TO ME. What're you gonna do about it?! My life is ruined!
O:What're you talkin' about? I can see you smiling inside 'cause you're happy about it, aren't you, ya little joker! The next time they say that stuff to you, you say to them right back, "TAKE THIS, ELECTRIC-MARIMO!!"
C'mon! Show 'em your Brother-Soul!
D: Where do theBaroque Worksgo on their company vacation?
O:Apparently they just took a trip to theHokkaidoWinter Festival. But since it'd be bad for each agent to know who the other agents are, they all received their trip train tickets separately and went on vacation individually.
D: Brrrrrring... brrrrrrring... hello, Odacchi? Put your thumb in your mouth, and spin around. GIMME YOUR BEST SEXY POSE! Ehehehehehe... did it work?
O:Whoa, whoa! Did you see me just now? I was like, daaaaayuum sexy. Like professional model-level sexy. I... No wait, I shouldn't be doing this.
D: No time for introductions, just answer my question. DidMiss Goldenweekeat one of those fruits?
O:No, she... how should I say this? She's kind of like a hypnotist.Colorscan already affect humans subconsciously such as exciting or calming us down. So she's a painter who can further enhance these effects, not aDevil Fruituser.
D: In the Cover Page Stories, there are "Camiethe Mermaid" and "Octopakothe Fishwoman". How are the races of mermaids and fish(wo)men related?
Octopus Fish-Man (left), Octopus Merman (right).
O:As you can see here, the ones with the bottom half of fish are "mermaids". The ones with fish-like upper halves are "Fish-Men". To illustrate the difference with an octopus, look to the right. As for the difference in their natures, mermaids generally try to be friends with other fish, while the Fish-Men try to rule the fish. That's the gist of it. Of course, their habitats are different too, but you'll see for yourself later on in the story eventually.
D: In an SBS inVolume 20, you said "Sanji's left eye is one of the 7 great mysteries". So what the hell are the other 6?! I'll bust aSHAKUSHIon you if you don't tell me!!!!
-by Obvious Fool-
O:Very well. I'll announce them all right here. To start, the 2nd mystery is, "The 7th mystery is a mystery". The 3rd mystery is, "The 6th mystery is a mystery". The 4th mystery is, "The 5th mystery is a mystery". So... hahaha! It's a bundle of mysteries! ...Sorry. I'll think up some proper ones.
(Am I lying or not?)
D: InVolume 20ofOne Piece, I was surprised to learn that OP is also sold in Taiwan. And also the kanji-characters they chose to write "Nami". So what are the kanji for the other crew members and Vivi in Taiwan?
O:Hmmm. I've been getting a fair amount of questions regarding foreign versions of the manga, so I think sometime in the future I'll make a little page explaining stuff like that. Just give me a little time. It's being published in a lot of different countries, you know. One Piece, that is.
No questions, just two little games made by a reader.
D: Ssseeennseeeeii, wait a minnnnnnnnnuttttte. I... I... IfMr. 7becameMr. 6, what would happen to his face?
Mr. 7 -> Mr. 6; Mr. 6: Ohohoho!
O:Oh, if he was promoted? Hmm, yes, he does have a very Mr. 7-ish face right now. I'd assess this is what he might look like if he became Mr. 6. Wow, he's a changed man. He could even pull off a Mr. 9...
D: Wassssup, Oda-sensei?! I have a question about Vivi and Zoro (doooon)!! Why doesVivicallZoroMr. Bushido?! (dogooon) I'm super super SUUUPER interested. Pleeeeeaaaaseeeee tell me! Bye!! See you in a million years!!
-by Potato-kun-
O:You know how if you start calling a friend by a funny nickname, you can't really go back? It's the same case here. In fact, if she were to suddenly start calling him Zoro-san, it would seem strange. I think Vivi will call Zoro Mr. Bushido for the rest of her life.

D: Oda-senseee! I always enjoy theOne Piecemanga and anime. By the way, there's something that's been bothering for quuuuuuuiiiiiite a while now. What kind of alcohol is the one thatDoctorineis always drinking? In the manga, the bottle's labeled "UME" but is it ume as in plum???
-by Waiting to seeChopper-
O:Yes. Plum. It'sPlum brandy. Homemade.
Another game made by a reader.
D: Oh come on now, Odacchi. You don't even know what the "ran" in gakuran means?? Then I'll explain, just for you! The "ran" in gakuran comes from the esoteric Edo-period term for western clothes, "randa". How about that? Cool, huh? It's not ranpaku (egg white).
-by Miss Bon Curry-
O:Oh, really? "Randa", huh? I see. I was so sure that it actually came from "lumberjack deathmatch" (the lumber is pronounced "ranbaa" in japanese). I guess I was wrong, then.
D: Okay okay okay! Question. BW is an abbreviation for Baroque Works. When I was in geography class and found out that BW was also used to represent "desert", I was so surprised!! That sounds like the worldly Oda I know. I have such deep respect for you! ...you knew that of course, didn't you sensei?!
-by Highschool First-year in Akita-
O:Yes. A map symbol. BW stands for "desert". Right?! Isn't that cool?! I thought that up all myself! Yes, I did!! Me!! ......man..................... I did not know that...
D: Draw the main 6 characters WITH YOUR FOOT.
SHOW ME YOUR SPIRIT, ODACCHI.
-Pen name: Ainya-
O:Oryaaaaaaaaaaaaa!! That'sLuffy!! The man who will be pirate king!! That hurts... why'd you make me do that...? And all six... no way! I can't... nope!! Bye! Stay well! See you next time!
The SBS is over!
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 24.
D: Huh?! What, Eiichirou-kun?! Wait. I'm in a hurry!! Huh?! Say it?! Say what?! No, I will not!! I'm going now, okay?! Okay, goodbye!! (voice fading away)
STArt the s... b... s...!! (casually but kindly).
O:SO YOU ARE GONNA SAY IT?! ......Ah well, take care.
D: JUST HOW MANY LITERS IS ODA-SENSEI?
-by Nori (liquid type)-
O:Yeahhh. I think it was about... 4th grade or so. When I saw a kappa.
D: A question for Oda-sensei. In the Marines, there are some people who wear uniforms and some people who wear normal clothes. Is wearing regular clothes determined by rank, or is it all up to personal preference?
O:Well... A little from column A, a little from column B. How do I explain this... Basically, when you first join the Marines, you are given a basic Marine uniform and cap. This is a pretty proud moment that you'd want to call home and tell your parents about. Private First Class (Ittouhei) and everyone below must wear these. So Jango and Fullbody are actually breaking the rules. For ranks Corporal (Gochou) and above, you can choose other types of uniforms or wear your own personal clothes. However, discretion is advised so that you still look the part of a Marine. Now when you attain the rank of Warrant Officer (Juni), you earn the privilege of wearing "Justice" on your clothes. For ranks Major (Shousa) and above, the Justice coat and suit is the most common attire. (For more info regarding Marine ranks, consult Volume 8.)
D: It takes a while for time to pass in manga, doesn't it? Since it's a weekly story. So, should we wait like 2 more years for Luffy's birthday?
O:No, no, no. He has a birthday every year, just like everyone else. It's just that, in Luffy's case, every year is his 17th birthday. Doesn't that make you jealous?
D: Hold on, hold on, Oda-sensei. On the 2nd panel of page 215, chapter 216 "Vivi's Adventure" in Volume 23, I see 3 among the bystanders, THREE. He's just walkin' around! What in the WORLD is the meaning of this?! Didn't he die?! Give me an answer in a 75-character reply, right now!! (punctuation doesn't count)
O:Ohh, heisthere. Yup, that's him all right. What? But you want me to make a reply only 75 characters-long? On the reason why he's there?! Fine, here's why. BECAUSE... ah!! Crap, I' ve passed the character limit.
D: Nice to meet you today, Oda-sensei. Now, here is my question to you. Who is it that takes those pictures for the wanted posters distributed by the Marines?
O:That'd be this dude here.
Name:Attach. Nickname: Atta-chan.
He's extremely quick and can sneak into any place he wants. He is called "Flaming Atta-chan" because he yells "Fire!!" whenever he hits the shutter.
Head of the Marine Photography Department "Flaming Atta-chan".
Attach: FIRE!! *FLASH!*
No questions, just a little game made by a reader.
D: Hello. Here's my question, Oda-sensei. Among all your characters, which one do you think of as "most similar to yourself"? (I'm thinking I'm a lot like "Usopp"...)
O:Hmm... Let's see. Clever mind. Cool and calm personality. Stand-out attire... Guess there's really only one character who fits that bill... RED-HAIR SHANKS... Huh? I can suddenly hear everyone shouting for some reason... Hahaha... AH! OWW!!! Please stop throwing things at me!! It really hurts!!
D: About the Alabastian Civil War. I know there were 300 thousand royalist soldiers and 700 thousand rebels, but then in Volume 20, Chaka mentions "2 million angry warriors". Where did those extra 1.3 million guys come from? (I wonder if it was people who didn't join at first, like Toto, but then changed their minds...)
O:That's correct. Alabasta is a country with roughly 10 million citizens. To make things simpler to understand, I left out a bunch of things, but there are lots of other towns and villages besides the ones that appeared in the story. Hearing "10 million" might make 2 million seem smaller, but that's still an armed uprising of 2 million people. It's a very serious situation. A major rebellion.
D: Salutations, Oda Eiichirou-sama. Previously, I went on a homestay trip to England. I have something to report to you, Oda Eiichirou-sama. THE TOILET PAPER WAS BROWN!!! (and slighty orange-ish)
O:FOR REALS?! Damn. Then you can't see the poop on it!! Is that because England is the country of Earl Grey tea?! Is it supposed to represent Earl Grey tea?!
Another game made by a reader.
D: Oda-chan! How you doin'?! (Inoki-impression) Umm, I have a question. In One Piece Volume 18, chapter 157, Luffy complains about lack of food with spirally eyes... but right behind him are Nami and her orange trees. Can't he just eat them? They're oranges...
O:Oranges... Yes, there are oranges...... However... To pick and take one bite is to taste instant death. Yes, instant death. Going a whole week without food is usually not enough to kill a human. So whether you bear through it for some greater purpose still remaining in your life, or pick an orange (death) and try your luck with the navigator's fury... That's a pretty big gamble... That being said, if her friends really were starving to death, I don't think she'd be cold enough to just let them die. *Brrr*
D: Oda-senseeei! YOUR PHONE IS RINGING. -Pen name: That's Right-
O:Nah, don't worry. It's just my editor.
D: I need to ask you something, Oda-sensei. I want to give you a letter directly, but I don't know where to send it. Please tell me your address.
O:Ahh. An address. For a letter.
... BUT I GOT YOUR LETTER. (DUN-DUN-DUUNNN!)
Umm. There are two adresses you can use. You can use the address for the editors' offices as written in Jump Magazine, or the special mailbox for the SBS questions only. Either way, it all comes right to me so don't worry.
D: How is it that the spikes from Miss Doublefinger's "Toge Toge Fruit" can also grow from outside her body (her clothes, that is)?
O:Huh? Are you referring to the fact that the spikes would rip the clothes? If I did that, wouldn't this become an extraordinarily EROTIC MANGA?! And if I did that, then I'd have to draw it that way on book covers, so then everyone'd be super embarrassed when trying to buy it at the bookstore!! You want that?!
D: Hello, I am "Sam's Daughter". Wait wait, Oda-sensei!! I have a very big complaint! In Volume 23, the part with the quote that says, "We picked flowers for you" with the sfx that say *Flowerrr...!!* Yes, that part. Now doesn't Jango's flowers seem extremely LAZILY DRAWN? You probably just cut corners after drawing Fullbody's flowers! (this is you, after all...) HMPH! WHAT IS THE MEANING OF THIS?
O:DON'T BE PRESUMPTUOUS!!
I CUT CORNERS ON BOTH OF THEM (DON!)
Okay, now here's my "Simple Rose-Drawing Lecture".
Triangles, triangles, triangles, more triangles, and even more triangles... Voila! A beautiful rose!
D: You really like playing pranks, don't you, Oda-sensei? You're always drawing Pandaman everywhere... A-N-D S-O. I want you to let me play a prank, too. "The SBS is over". Something like that.
O:Oh, it's over...? Well, see you next time.
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 25.
D: Boys and girls across the nation, come together! Let's see, who's gonna do the title call today? Aha, how about you? Eiichiro-kun!! Huh? What? You want everyone to say it with you? Okay!! Good idea!! Alright everyone, let's all shout it together on the count of three... two... START THE SBS!! (now everyone got to do it equally!)
O:SPLRAAAAAH!! AAAAAAH!! AAAAAAAAH!!
I bit my tongue. Darn it, I lost my chance!

D: Hello, Oda-sensei! Here's a sudden question. In page 28 of volume 18, is that an EARRING I see on that sea cat's left ear? What's up with that? Please tell me.
-by Miss White Day-
O:Ummm. That is "ear hair (mimige)". On a related note, everyone, try saying this three times fast. "Migimimi Migime Migime Migimimi" (Right Ear, Right Eye, Right Eye, Right Ear). Hard, isn't it?

D: Hello! Odacchi!! Do you think that February 6 would be a good day for Nico Robin's birthday?
O:Ah, yes, I like the sound of that.
((NI)co (RO)bin... ni=two, ro=six).
D: How are ya, Odacchi? I know how much you like getting butt-naked, so this must be a favourite season for you. <3
O:Yes, yes. I just LOVE getting completely naked. In the summertime, after I take a bath I just run STRAIGHT OUTSIDE!! And when the girls' softball team running on the sidewalk looks over at me, they say, "Yup, it's really summer now!!"
... AS IF!! I'D GET ARRESTED!!!

D: A question for Oda-sensei!! Long ago, English nobility called each other by the honorific "Sir". Is that what the "sir" in "Sir Crocodile" is from?
O:Were you SIRprised? (good one)

D: One Piece, Volume 24, page 184! Why is it that when Usopp is fixing the ship and he hits his middle finger with the hammer, in the next picture his index finger is bruised?!
-by Natchan Orange-
O:...Ah well, think of it like a balloon. For instance, if you have a long balloon, when you squeeze the right end, the left end will puff up. If you hit Usopp's middle finger with a hammer (wham!!) his index pointer finger will puff up. You understand?
No questions. Just a little game made by a reader.
D: Aaah, hello hello, Oda-sensei! Nami says stuff like "Tornado Tempo" a lot with her Clima Tacts, but what the heck does "Tempo" mean? Please tell me!
-by Traveler (age 15)-
O:Tempo. It means weather. Weather in Italian. Tempo. I just liked how the word sounded.

Mr.3 floating on a floating piece of wood
D: If Mr. 3 is supposed to have Devil Fruit powers, then why is he floating on top of the water in volume 19, page 185, panel 3?
O:I sure got a lot of these response... You wouldn't believe how many postcards I got about this. But you guys all understimated me... There's a proper reason for this. Under Mr. 3's body there just so happened to be a piece of "Unbelievably Floaty Wood". And that is why he was floating so unbelievably. Let's say, normally a person's floating power is 3 Pukas, and a sumo wrestler's would be about 5 Pukas. But on a good day, a piece of "Unbelievably Floaty Wood" can get as high as 13 Pukas, the world record set by floating master Pukayama Ukijirou.

D: Hello, Oda-sensei. I need to ask you about something I just noticed. IsBellamy the Hyena's name modelled after the North American pirate Samuel "Black Sam" Bellamy?
O:Yes. That is correct. Samuel Bellamy. That's him. They say he was a pretty big-time pirate in his day, and had a love for speaking. Instead of a "Hyena", he was more of a "Lion" fond of speeches.
Another game made by a reader.
D: Greetings! Why is it that Zoro has his swords held at his right hip when swords are usually worn on the left?
-Quickly-
O:Uhhh... because if Zoro doesn't have something heavy on his right side, he'd keep leaning to the left (ha). Oh, that's right. I have a question for you now. In Volume 21, Chapter 194 "Cut Through Steel", why is it that Zoro has his swords on his left hip in every single picture? And why is it that on page 154, his scabbards seem to have disappeared entirely? Now, is it true that the mistakes in this chapter were so massive that even the readers failed to write in and scold me for them?
Yes, it's true.
Is it true that I didn't fix a single panel because of the half-assed reason, "there are too many panels to fix"?
Yes, that is true. And now, a haiku:
Hmmm, Oda-sensei. Looks tired again today.
The weather is nice. Sensei, thank you very much for your time today. You're welcome.

D: I have a serious question for Oda-sensei. How come, in manga, no matter where you go, everyone always speaks the same language?
-By Chobi-
O:Because manga is something where everyone's dreams are depicted.
Yet another game made by a reader.
D: Where isVira? In Vol. 11, it's having a "coup d'état", in chapter 228 it's a "merry town". What's going on?
O:Oh. Well spotted. 400 years ago when Noland visited it, Vira was indeed just a merry town, but these days it's a violent and dangerous country in the midst of a coup d'état (rebellion). But it's not really so much what's happening in Vira, as what's happening all around the world at this time. I think you'll discover what I mean in the near future. Not as large as Arabasta, it's just a small country in the Grand Line.
So hold off on your sightseeing trips.

D: Oda-sensei, I saw the movie "Chopper's Kingdom on the Island of Strange Animals". It was really really fun. The movie that was shown with it, "Dream Soccer King" had a character named "Odacchi" which I was very surprised to see. Oda-sensei, DOES YOUR FACE REALLY LOOK LIKE THAT?
O:Yes.

D: Hello, Oda-sensei. Reading the latest One Piece, I've just noticed that Sanji has leg hair. And I was thinking, if he's blond, the leg hair shouldn't stand out so much. I am a huge fan of Sanji, so I must say that I don't like the fact that he has leg hair. Oda-sensei, I beg you to do something about this (from the bottom of my heart).
O:But he's fuzzy. You know, Chopper's fuzzy too!
Alright, it's time to end the SBS! See you next volume!!
Answers to the third game.
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 26.
O:Um... in the SBS Sections a few volumes back, everyone kept asking about foreign versions of One Piece. Amazingly enough, even I, the author, had no idea in which countries One Piece is published. So, I asked theShueishapublishing's international department to investigate for me. Thanks to everyone that helped. Below is the list of countries and languages that One Piece is published in as of October 2002. You will definitely not be able to buy these versions in Japan.
There are eleven Countries:
There are four more countries that plan to publish One Piece in 2003:
That's what I heard. Amazing, right?
O:In the foreign versions, some of the main characters' foreign names sound rather interesting. Let's check them out now. Some are pretty strange.
Continues on p.62...
O:As for the anime, it's already in Taiwan, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Thailand, Singapore, Italy and Greece. So Luffy and the others are talking in those countries' languages! I want to see it...
O:Different countries have different spellings, but a lot of them have the same pronunciation, so I picked the ones that sound unique and listed them. I didn't includeNico Robinbecause she hasn't appeared in the books published in those countries yet. Obviously they're behind the Japanese releases. By the way, sometimes I get mail from readers in foreign countries, but I can't read them. (Doh!) I can still understand their feelings, though, so I'm happy. Thank you.
The many faces of ONE PIECE!
The "That's Not Good!" corner:
O:The one on the left is the cover insert for Volume 10 of theFrenchversion. It talked about how I am the same age as Sazae-san. Of course, French readers don't know about Sazae, so they had to add an explanation below. Sorry about that, making you have to go this far... from now on, I'll be careful and try not to blabber. (Yes!) Now, look at the right, I was surprised... they even translated "SBS"... it's such fine work... even these little Q&A games made it across the sea. Now all the kids in the world are going to say "Oh, the Japanese are so silly".
Ok, you are also our friend.
O:Oh... it's English. This is theAmericanversion. It only happened recently, but starting from November 2002, "Shounen Jump Weekly" is going to transform into "Shonen Jump" and enter the American market. The lineup for the magazine is: "Dragon Ball", "Yu-Gi-Oh!", "Sandland", "Shaman King", "Naruto" and "One Piece". Oh, I wonder what it's like. So that's it! Not only will you see One Piece in a lot of countries, but you'll also see lots of other Japanese manga series. I can't wait to see what will happen in the future, although I'll probably still be doing the same thing. Well then, the Special SBS International Investigation Committee is over. Starting from the next volume, the stupid, the fun SBS Q&A will return. See you next volume!!
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 27.
D: Oda-sensei! It's bad! It's horrible! SBS is starting! ......Ah! ......Aaaaah! It's already started---. SBS started *cries*.
-By Rose Triangle
O:Don't cry. Seriously. It's time for SBS anyway.
D: Nice to meet you. Odacchi, I found out something amazing! MARIMO BALLS (Aegagropila) GROW 10 CM IN A YEAR!! (by A**hi Newspaper) , It reaches the 30 cm maximum in three years. They apparently grow better the more sunlight they have, so Zoro's head would grow really big, since he sleeps on the deck...
Zoro as marimo; Zoro: Eh?! Hey
O:What~ really~?! That's horrible! 10 cm in a year?! Then it's... 1 meter in 10 years?! Ah... that's kinda cool... really now... Marimo balls grow that big... I'm looking forward to 10 years later... Ah, wait! That's a person.
D: I want to say this to Sanji! Why do you use "san" for Nami, who's younger, and "chan" for Nico Robin, who's older? Isn't it the opposite normally? Hey Sanji-kun, that's rude for Robin-chan!
-By Girl same age as Sanji
O:Yeah. Really. What's that about? Maybe it's Nami's natural queenly-ness that makes him do it. But anyway, age doesn't matter, 'cause they're all free. Probably just random.
D: Oda-sensei, Hello!! Please tell me Smoker and Hina's profiles. They're both captains and from the same time, but are their ages the same too? Or maybe success has nothing to do with age?
D: Guten Tag! Oda-sensei, tell me, what are the ages of Smoker and Hina? And I thought it'll be good if Smoker's birthday is March 14 (White Day), and Hina's is March 3 (Hinamatsuri). Tschüs.
O:Er. I introduced both of them at the same time. Birthday? Yeah, ok. Smoker's 34 and Hina's 32. They got into the Marines at the same time, but Hina was, of course, an elite. Smoker was the punk that never listened to his superiors. You might want to say that they're stuck with each other. Smoker almost gets fired, and Hina rescues him. But anyway, they both ate the Devil Fruit, so they're pretty important forces for the Marines, and one of the reasons why they're Captains at such young ages.
D: I have a question for Oda-sensei. In Chapter 212, is that little thing attached to the "Full" the Billower Bike? That would mean it works on water, right? What kind of a bike is it?
O:That's actually for both land and sea. The "Billower" is from "billow" ("a large wave"), and it's the reason why the tires are unusually wide. I'll use it for real one of these days. Wonder when that'll be?
D: I have a question for Oda-sensei. I'm always looking for Pandaman, but who's this guy that's always by him? And what's that thing he's always holding in his hand?
Tomato Gang (38)
O:Eh? Who that guy? He's the TOMATO GANG, DUH. Yeah, that's the Tomato Gang. There's no other answer. He's a debt collector. He's going to continue chasing Pandaman until he pays for the debt he owes. He's holding "something like a gun" in his hand. There are rumors that're going around that it's actually a konbu seaweed roll.
D: Odacchi!! Heso! (Means Belly-button; Greetings used in Skypiea) In Volume 25, after Bellamy got beaten, that outfit Shoujou was wearing! "Cyberpanda", what's that Ventriloquize your answer please.
O:)@*&#$%)*@& ....... LIKE HELL I COULD DO IT!! IKKOKUDOOKAWASHAA!! Yes. Like that. That outfit is........ )*@#&%(&*^@(# IKKOKUDOOKAWASHAA!! Yes. Sorry for making you read that twice. I've been getting comments that the SBS these days are too random. I'm really ashamed... Really...!! Sorry. That was, er. "Cyberpanda". It's a fake product like the "Dosko1 Panda", but it's more expensive than the real "Doskoi Panda". Be careful.
Mohji:GREAT, AWESOME!! SHALL WE HAVE A PARTY, CAPTAIN?!!
Buggy:YOU MEAN WE AREN'T NOW?!!
D: Buggy says "Yaraideka!" before a feast, but what exactly does it mean? I've always thought that was a typo, but my mother told me that it means "let's have a feast", and I was convinced. Is it some kind of a dialect?
O:Mmm. This was actually a pretty popular question. I hoped people would kind of get it from the context. If I must put it in the simplest terms, it is a dialect. It's the "Edo-ben". Tokyo's old dialect. You've probably heard "te yandei!!". That means "Wha're you saying !!". Edo people had very little patience, so "yaraideka!" means "How could we NOT!" I heard this from one of my good friends who lives in the traditional area, so I don't think it's wrong. I've been thinking about having a "Edokko Pirates" (Edokko means "kids from Edo"). It'll be funny to do that. Someday.
D: Hi, Odacchi!! I heard from a friend, but apparently the "Sokotsuya" (Careless person) that does Karoo's voice is actually Hirata Hiroaki, who does Sanji. Is it true?!
O:"Kueee!!". Yes. That's Hirata-san aka Sanji doing it. And Matsuge from Alabasta's being done by Yamaguchi aka Usopp. In the anime, say, if Sanji or Zoro don't appear in the episode, then the regulars don't have lines. What they do when that happens is they play around. *laughs* Like guessing animal voices. But they don't use their real names in the credits, so they just use "Sokotsuya" ("Rude Guy") like that. But listen carefully to the animals. If the voice actor's name is "Sokotsuya", it's one of the Straw Hats doing it.
Cricket: "PASSION"!!!! (Romance)
D: G'morning. Um... Volume 25, Chapter 235, Page 174. I read "That's!! "MARRON"!!!!" (In Japanese, this stands for "Marron", the French word for chestnut). I'm pretty sure others have read it that way. (Because it's a chestnut. And it's Cricket. His head)... How 'bout you to just make it "Marron"?
Pen Name: Yaguchi Mari's Cheering Chief Bocchan.
O:NO. What're you saying? Come on... Jaya arc's theme? You know? It's "A MAN'S ROMANCE"!!! Ah! He is so cool. What marron... that's totally wrong. I'll say this, but that part says nothing about a marron or any chestnut. I'll say it clearly this time. The theme for the Jaya arc is "A MAN'S MARRO... ROMANCE!!!"
D: Oda-sensei, hello! I was looking through this book about monsters, and I came upon this Chinese monkey monster called a "Shoujou". Is that where Shoujou's name comes from?
By Fujiko-
O:Hmm. I guess if you trace it. It's written differently in Japanese, and it does point to the monster thing, but it's more commonly known as the orangutan. Yes, it's taken exactly. Oh, and Mashira's also like that. Japanese people used to call monkeys "mashira".
D: Hello. I'm a big fan of Nami. So here's a question! Nami's wearing that bracelet even when she's taking a bath (Vol. 23)!! I thought it must be something really important, so I looked through all the volumes, and she's been wearing it since they came out of Kokoyashi Village. And, surprise, Nojiko was wearing it before that!! Did Nojiko give it to Nami when they went to Kokoyashi Village?! There must be some secret sisterly love there... *sniff sniff*? Anyway. Please tell me!!
By Bon-chan
O:Yes. It is that bracelet. The morning of their departure (Vol. 11), the bracelet is gone from Nojiko's arm. On her shoulder are Bellemere's and Gen-san's symbols, tangerine and windmill. And on her left hand is the bracelet she got from her sister. They're not connected by blood, but Nami is always with her family.
D: This may be sudden, but l love coloring. Oda-sensei, please increase the number of coloring corners for the seven main characters! (A lot of them, please!)
By Mitchi in Grade 10
O:Oh! You love coloring? Yeah it's fun, coloring. I guess there haven't been many coloring corners. I'll put one on. Please go to page 166. I'll say this to coloring lovers, but black is already filled in the corners. That's because it's the stuff that never got to be color. Sorry. If you have requests of what picture you want to color, go ahead. Anyway. See you next volume.
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 28.
D: Hello, Oda-sensei. Listen, I'm going to tell you my dream. I want to be an animator because of One Piece. So, with the hope of becoming one, let me say THOSE WORDS! Please!!! Now...
"One Piece readers! SBS IS STARTIIIING!!"
Ah, finally. Thanks a lot.
Tako Musume
O:Fgah!!... fngah!!... daa!!!....... haahaa... That was dangerous... I couldn't get my finger out of my nose. Everyone, be careful when you're picking your nose!
Let's start SBSSSS!
D: I have one... just one... question for the honorable (no, really) Oda Eiichiro-sama. Can I ask? What? Ok? Yay!! Then let me really ask you.
WHAT SPECIES DO YOU BELONG TO?
O:HUMAN, DUMBASS. NEXT!!
D: Hey!! This is sudden, but I came up with Luffy's new attack. I think I'll just do it to Odacchi, so please take it.
GOMU GOMU NO GOMUUUU!! How was it?
Grampa
O:Waaa. That hurt... hmmmmm... it was kinda... RUBBERYYYY!
Yes. That reaction... Is that good enough?
Anyways, I'll go to the next question.
D: Hello! Oda-sensei! In an SBS in Volume 25, you said, "Manga is for drawing people's dreams." I was very moved by those words. But there's something wrong with that. My dream is to see Nami naked, butit's never drawn. Do you know why?
O:Nami naked, eh?. We all want to see it. She was in the bath before. That hand's in the way, damn it!! Seriously. And Vivi was covered by that stupid towel!! It's an emergency. I'll try harder on the camera angle next time!
D: Nico Robin's range in growing her body parts 200 Hana Hanas. Right?
Tomoya
O:Yeah. Something like that.
D: Oda-sensei!!!! My dad told me, "One Piece is a WEIRD manga", so I said, "NO!! ONE PIECE IS A GREAT MANGA!!" Almost. (really)
O:What?! That's a silent scream!! Why don't you say it out loud! Everybody, repeat after me!! "ONE PIECE IS A WEIRD MANGA!!"
Whoo hoo! It's Spring.
D: Oda-sensei and the characters of One Piece say "Spirit" a lot, but what exactly is Spirit?! I don't get it. I looked it up in the dictionary and... it wasn't even in there! Do other readers get it? Please tell me!
O:"Spirit" is "to feel strongly". When someone hopes for something really hard, it happens. Those people are glamorous.
No questions, just a little game made by a reader.
D: Yo! Odacchi! I can't even do my homework because I think about this too much, so listen! You said in some SBS that you sometimes make the same expressions as the ones you're drawing. I didn't know that Odacchi's eyeballs could LEAVE THE SKULL.
O:Of course. It's my speciality. When I'm really surprised, they fly away. My personal best is 18 Yaaarghs. The world record is 84 Yaarghs. Everyone is working hard to beat it.
D: Are the "Shichibukai" (Seven Armed Seas) modeled after the Privateers, who were used by England and France as a last resort to counter Spain, a major power at that time, by letting pirates raid Spanish towns in exchange for giving the government a part of the plunder?
O:Hah!! A serious question. (cries) Yes! Privateers! Simply put, "licensed pirates" really did exist back in the day. For the home country, they were heroes. For other countries, they were looters. When you look back at history, the reason why pirates were not generalized as "criminals" is because of these pirate heroes. But that doesn't decide whether it was good or bad thing. Pirates are pirates. If the crime was too big, it can be confused with justice.
D: Hello, Oda-san! I've been wanting to ask this, but you know Whitebeard Volume 25's pages 158-159? What I wanted to ask was about those nurses. Why are they all wearing leopard print tights? Is it just a coincidence? Or does the Strongest Man, Whitebeard, Edward Newgate like leopard prints? Please tell me, Oda-san.
Leopard print.
O:Leopard prints have this kinda... wild feeling... Isn't it great? Oh, and I hear there are more hospitals where nurses wear pants... "That's sad. I'm gonna cry now...", Whitebeard said. He wishes all nurses would wear clothes like that!! What a naughty geezer!!
D: Hey, Oda-sensei!! I want to be a manga artist, and I want to submit my work to Jump, but there's something I'm confused about... Do I have to use tones or something special like that? Where are they being sold? Please answer seriously!!
An amateur who aspires to be a manga artist.
O:Yes. This kind of question comes up a lot. I think I'll have a brief manga basics page made one of these days. You can't get equipment for manga at the stationary store. Let's all go to an art store. The people there should be able to tell you all about some, too.
Answer to the game.
D: Am I an monkey? Or am I a "saruagari"?
Masira Pirates
O:Saruagari. One Piece readers are all saruagari!!... Don't run, guys. You don't like it? It's a compliment. I don't know what it means, though. Go with it.
D: HI!! Eiichi! You said in Volume 27 that the Jaya arc was "A man's romance"?! As a woman of 18 years, how would you define my "burning passion for adventure" and "infinite dreams"?! And all my blood goes to my head when I read your manga!!! Take responsibility for it!!! Please take responsibility and include the girls, too.
From Her New Nye Co.
O:A woman's romance? No, it's a bit complicated. The word "man" is sometimes used like an adjective. Really good women have men in themselves. You call them "chic". So I'll scream it once again: Men and women can use "A MAN'S ROMANCE"!! Women are included!!
D: Nice to meet you, Oda-sensei <3. I have a question. On my high school exam, I was asked who I look up to, and I told my parents I might answer "Luffy". Then they told me not to, because it's embarrassing. I really admire Luffy, though!!
Oda-sensei, say something to my parents, please!
Usagi
O:Ouou!! Mom, Mom!! How dare you!! You... yeah, you'd be embarrassed if you answered that you admire Luffy
See you next volume!!
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 29.
D: To the person who replied "BECAUSE I MADE HIM LIKE ME" when asked "Why is Zoro so cool?" at Jump Festa 2003, which embarrassed Zoro's voice actor Nakai Kazuya...
GET OUT OF HERE IMMEDIATELY.
....Are you gone,Oda Eiichiro...? Now I can finally start the SBS with my heart at ease... So...
SBS, START!!
O:...That was so long ago, I don't even remember it. When you say Jump Festa, you mean the event that Jump holds every year at the end of the year, right? It's a big annual event, so it's interesting. In the two days, over 100,000 people came. This time there was a One Piece musical, too. Amazing.
Well then, let's start the SBS.

D: Hello, Oda-sensei!! I've always wondered, are all the Marine Captains [Taisa] and above at the Marine Headquarters different than the Captains at the Marine Bases? Are they just raised tougher, or what
By the guy from the mask store.
O:Yes. They're way different. The Marine Headquarters are like the super-elite of the Marines. These men who appeared at the assembly in Volume 11. These are the men in the Headquarters' "Junior Officers" ranks (Lieutenant [Taii], Junior Lt. [Chuui], Ensign [Shoui]) but if the former Base Captain [Taisa] "Axe-Arm Morgan" or "Captain [Taisa] Nezumi" from Nami's home were there, they would be among those men. The Headquarters and standard Base ranks are about three ranks apart, you could say. A higher Captain [Taisa] at a Base would be a lower Lieutenant [Taii] at Headquarters, and a Commander [Chuusa] would be a Junior Lieutenant [Chuui].
D: AHH AHH AAAAAAHH AHH (8)
From the Northern Country, Sada Masashi
O:AAHH AAAAAHH AAAHH AHH AAHH AAHH AAAHH (8)
RURURU?!! ALL RIGHT, THAT'S ENOUGH!!!... What am I singing for? But I do love that song from the north.
D: Nice to meet you!! I always enjoy reading One Piece. When I'm at work, I usually listen to the radio, and the other day on Nippon Broadcast on Kitano Makoto's Quiz Corner, I heard that some unusual snow fell in France. That was pink snow!! Did you know about this beforehand and insert into the story on purpose?
Penname Oyumino Chopper
O:Hmm, pink snow. Yes, I knew about it. It's caused by tiny particles of dirt in the atmosphere, specifically iron, that are red in color. Then when snow falls, it can turn pink or red. I've heard that some fell in France. There are also records of yellow snow falling. It's funny how pollution in the atmosphere can create these fantastic scenes.
D: Hello, Oda. I have a question about the priests in Skypiea.Gedatsu(Being liberated from earthly desires),Shura(A buddhism divinity),Satori(Enlightenment, comprehension), andYama(Another Buddhism divinity)... Since it's God's Land, did you name them after religious concepts? Also, if you don't mind, could you tell us whereOhm's name comes from? (><) Thank you very much!
O:Yes, that's right. I'm not very religious myself. "Ohm" comes from a holy word in theHindufaith, which is written like this:
My apologies to all the religious people out there.
D: Hello. Nice to meet you, Oda! I've been wondering about this for a while. In Volume 22, Chapter 198, whenCrocodilehasVivi-chanby the throat, Vivi says, "This country... I-". In Volume 23, Chapter 216, when Vivi is giving her speech, she says, "I still want to journey with you, but I love this country!!!" Is that what she said earlier?! That's it.
By I'm definitely right. Really.
O:Yes. Thank you for reading so closely. That's how it is. Vivi always felt that way. But,  the roar of the rebellion drowned out the princess feelings. In the last scene, the citizens who had been scared must have been overjoyed to hear Vivi say something like that (tear). What a great story. Yeah... yeah.
D: On the Grand Line, you can't use compass directions, right? So in Volume 24, Chapter 218, when Robin asks "Is theLog Poseall right?" why does Nami respond, "Straight forward, North by Northwest!!"?
If you can't give a satisfactory answer, jump into an ice cold pool.
O:Uh, it's summer now. Let' see. On the Grand Line, you can still tell directions when on land. On the previous island, Nami confirmed that the next island was in the North by Northwest direction, and since they were proceeding that way, she said that. I'm not jumping into anything.
D: I'n theOne Piece anime, w'hen Sanji says "Naaami-swaaaan <3 ", try saying "Nooomi-soooon". It sounds exactly the same!
P.N. Sasuke.
O:Okay. Thank you, Sasuke. I'll do this for the rest of my life.

Usopp is doing the Kamen Rider pose.
D: InChapter 251(Volume 27), page 91, where there's a "Shakin!!" SFX,'is 'Usoppdoing theKamen Riderfinishing pose? Oda, how much do you like Kamen Rider?
P.N. Yocchan Takoyaki
O:Do you know this?
I used to watch Kamen Rider when I was a kid. It was originally adapted fromIshinomori Shotaro-san's manga, though that's over now.
D: If Zoro and Sanji had a serious fight, who would win?ZorobeatMr. 1, so... he's stronger, right...?
O:Whoa! That was surprising... I thought you said "If Zoro and Sanji had a dick fight"...You have to be careful what you say. Someone might hear something totally wrong... Okay, see you next time!!
(serious = gachinko; dick = ga chinko)
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 30.
D: Welcome home, my <3 love. <3 Would you like dinner? Fufufu. <3 Or take a bath? Fufufu. <3 Or maybe <3 you'd rather <3 have...
ME?     Wha...?! No?!
Start the SBS? ...Oh. Okay...
START THE SBS!
-Bye, Love Wife 2-
O:Okay, let's begin. (nonchalant)
D: Mr. Oda! In Volume 22, 1st panel of page 142, you drew the Poneglyph, but why is "Pandaman" written on it? Is Pandaman an important person (is he even a person?!) in the history of Alabasta? Please tell me!
"Pandaman" written within the Poneglyph in Alabasta.
O:A round of applause! Clap clap clap. Well done in finding it. Even I'd forgotten thet I drew that in there. But in any case, yes, Pandaman isn't hidden just in the drawings.
D: Oda! Won't you draw the seven protagonists with your mouth?
-P.N. Shuuichi-
O:No, I don't wanna! Stop tryin' to get me to do stuff like that!
D: I have a question. The other day while listening to the radio, I heard that it never rains during the Wimbledon Tournament in England. The reason for this is that they they use jet planes to blow rain clouds away. However, doing so makes the surrounding areas have a lot of rainfall. I immediately thought of Dance Powder upon hearing this. I'm quite surprised that it's actually possible for humans to control the weather to some degree but was this really the basis behind your idea?
Artificial Rain Ship
O:Whether it would rain or not has been a life or death question for humans since ancient times, and many have dreamed of the power to control weather. The artificial rain that showed up during the Alabasta arc is something that humans have supposedly invented already. However, it costs a considerable amount to make the rain, and there's always the possibility that it would have rained regardless, so artificial rain has yet to be proven beyond doubt. The specific basis behind Dance Powder is silver iodide, which, if burned, is said to seed clouds and make them larger. Quite a curious substance, isn't it?
D: Dear Odacchi-Sama, please please PLEASE make us a One Piece- themed class timetable sheet!
PLEASE X 1000! Thaks a lot!
-Pen Name: Shibuya & Ishi-
O:A timetable, eh? You know, I made one for one of the earlier volumes some time ago. But oh well, we've gained more readers since then, and there've been others asking for a new one. Now the problem is, the format's probably different from my student days, so I'm not sure what the best style would be for you guys. So for those of you with time to spare, send me a copy of your class timetable sheet, and I'll use it as a reference to make a new one.
D: Hello, my friend's family is from Shibukawa and they have an annual belly button (Heso) festival. I'm sure Conis would love to participate too, right?
-Pen Name: Ponponchi-
O:A... Belly button festival? What, does it involve belly dancing or something? In any case, all the people of the sky would love to join! Even Enel!
D: Why do all the pretty characters in One Piece have large breasts? Large breasts aren't the only thing that make a woman, y'know! I'm sure Sanji of all people would understand what I mean.
-by girl who likes Sanji-
Sanji:You're absolutely right, miss. PEOPLE ARE DEFINED BY THEIR HEARTS!
O:Ah, Nami's wearing a bikini.
Sanji:NNNNNNNNAAAAAAAAMMMMMMIIIIIII!
D: Yo, Oda-sensei! I have a question about logia-type devil fruits. In chapter 280, Enel says that "Paramecia have to retain their original form..." Does that mean people like Crocodile, Ace, or Smoker, who can freely morph their physical bodies have logia-type devil fruits? If you don't answer me, I won't let you go to the toilet! You'll have to poop outside!
-P.N. Hilarious Joke-
O:I'm not going to poop outside. Jeez, you're so gross. Talking about poop. But in any case, since this is a pretty big question, allow me to break it down simply.
Paramecia (Superhuman)
Clear enough, right?
The logia-type, which allows its user to freely change his original physical form, definitely stands out on a whole other level compared to other devil fruits.
O: I got a set of karuta cards with interesting proverbs from Yoshiko of Tokyo. Let's all use it! Just don't write them down for a test!
D: Everyone's so fashionable in One Piece, but are you stylish too, Oda-chan?
O:Of course. A man should look his best every day. My hair is in a "free-grow" style that accentuates an au naturel sense. My clothes are radiant rags that match all four seasons. No belts for me, as that would restrict my vibrant joie de vivre. And comfortable flip flops even when entering high class hotels.
D: I have a question. On Volume 27, page 130, Sanji says to pour the water into the canteen if the pot inside fills up from the steam droplets, but how exactly does this survival technique work? Please tell me now.
-by Kagawa-
O:Oh, here's a diagram of getting drinking water via steam.
Diagram: Water 2, Steam Droplets, Water 1, Fire. Left side: Hold up with strings or something similar.
<- Set up 3 pots like so. We'll be using water from a river. The "water 2" is there to cool the rising steam. The rising steam, once cooled, will change into water droplets and drop back down into the middle pot, giving us clean drinkable water. In Sanji's case, he used "Sea clouds".
Now that you know this, you'll be able to make water anywhere!
7 Straw Hats drawn by Oda's mouth
O:My result. It's better not to draw with one's mouth. Now please, don't ask me to do this ever again. P.N. Shuuichi-kun, my front teeth all hurt now! They're about to break!
See you again next volume, SBS!
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 31.
O: BEGIIIIIIIIN THE SBS! (DON!)
Woohoo! I said it! I finally said it! Oh, I'm overcome with joy! I bet you all thought I'd given up on it lately, didn't you? Haha, well you're still too green. I was only looking for the perfect chance all along. Ahh... This feels great. You ain't gonna take this from me anymore! Come at me if you dare!
D: Oda-sensei, I've been wondering something as I watchedOne Piece. Why don'tLuffy,Zoroor the others have armpit hair? I'm younger than Luffy and I've already got A JUNGLE DOWN THERE.
Seriously, why they don't have any? (tears)
-by Seriously, why?-
O:Is it really fine to draw them?
I mean, if that's what people want, I'll draw some thick bushes.
D: What do Zoro's new attack "X-Pound Cannon" mean?
-P.N. Mikan-
12-pound cannon
O:"12-pound cannon" and "24-pound cannon"attacks refer to cannons that can shoot cannonballs of those weights. 12 pounds might not sound like much, but the cannon needed to shoot them will need to weight over 1 ton. (1 pound = roughly 0.45kg).
What you shouldn't get them mixed up for is a fond de veau. That's something used in French cuisine.
(Note: Yes, Fond de veau is a Japanese pun pronunciation on "X-pondo hou," the spelling for "X-pound cannon." Even in Japanese, it's a stretch.)
D: Hello, Oda-sensei! I always read your manga with great pleasure.This might be sudden, but there's something I simply have to ask you. And that's about this picture right here. "Aww, isn'tChopper's surprised, round head so cute..."
WAIT, NO! My real question is...
"CHOPPER'S ANTLERS SHOULDN'T BE ATTACHED TO HIS HAT! THEY SHOULD BE ATTACHED TO HIS HEAD!"
Please tell me just what is going on with this image.
O:Ah, I got a mountain-load of letters about this, so let me just say to all of you...
NOT EVERYTHING SEEN BY THE EYES IS LITERAL TRUTH.
Basically, in this scene, Chopper was SO surprised that he felt even his antlers were about to jump out. That's what he was trying to convey to us by striking this pose. Maybe! It could be said... That this was his own... unique style of... Rock! Ok, next question.

D: InChapter 284's cover page, you drew an adorable dog smoking a cigarette. Even if you are Oda-sensei, I cannot let this stand by! Are you trying to give this dog health problems?!
-P.N. Animal Rights Organization Member no. 17-
O:Oh... Clearly, we were quite careless about this matter... We are terribly sorry. I'll make sure I properly scoldSanji. That troublemaker!
D: Hello, Oda Eiichiro-san. Thanks for everything. I recently re-read One Piece over from the very first volume, and there was something that jumped at me.
THESBSUSED TO BE SERIOUS.
When did it become this mess of a corner it is now? Whose fault is it? I've been wondering so much about it thatGaimon-san won't stop growing (his son is worried, too) Help me!P.S. Did you know that there is a person insideGachapin?
Gachapin and Mukku(kinda, well not really)
O:Hold up a second. Your P.S. is far more pressing than your real question.
GACHAPIN IS EXACTLY AS HE LOOKS.
There's no one inside of him so please don't lie. Incidentally, Gachapin's supposed to be a baby dinosaur while Mukku is an Abominable Snowman. Now, "baby dinosaur" is fine by me... but "abominable snowman"?
Oh come on, he's completely red!
A red abominable snowman in the white mountains?
TALK ABOUT BEING STARVED FOR ATTENTION. I LOVE MUKKU.
I guess Ponkikki (TV show that Gachapin and Mukku  are in) is what Japanese children grow up watching these days. What was the question again? Oh right, the SBS. So why'd it become like this? Dunno, but it's not my fault for sure.
D: Hello, Oda-san! I would really, really, really like to see what "Nnke-kun" looks like, the partner of "Domo-kun" (Volume 2, p. 13) who's always trying to take over the world.
-by Chii-yan-
O:Oh, I see. You're talking about my two hidden characters from long ago. InOne Piece "Blue", I mentioned that Domo-kun had a friend, so you must have gotten curious. Well, here they are! Domo-kun and Nnke-kun!! Clap clap clap!
I came up with these guys back in my highschool days. In my collection of "masterpieces" called "Wanted", these guys are hidden in the oneshot "Future Present from God". Since I've introduced them here, I might just slip them in for future chapters, haha.
(Left: Domo-kun. Right: Nnke-kun.)
D: Is the AlmightyGodEnelwearing a rubber swimming cap on his head?
O:...Uh huh, sure (lazy answer).
Oh wait-
There's no rubber on theSky Islands.
Umm... it's made out of cloth. (super lazy answer)

D: Hello, Oda-sensei. In the right corner of the first panel in Volume 26, page 54, is that the normally nonchalant Zoro diving into the sea cloud?
He really must've wanted to dive in there!
-by Toro-
O:Yeah, what an idiot.
D: Hello, my name is Akihiko. You must have gotten a ton of letters saying you made a mistake about the battle scene around volume 28, p. 155, right? Since I know you're very busy, I came up with an explanation of my own. Basically, during the "Surprise Dial Illusion,"Hotori and Kotori's necks must have also spun around and around, right?! Yes, now it all makes sense...
O:Ohhh! Akihiko! You're such a greeaaaat guy! Yes, I got a lot of letters pointing out this scene to me Somehow, even I mixed up the which dial was on which hand for these two (sorry). When I noticed, I worried over what I should do and decided to just ignore it for now (HEY!), but then your letter came along. I'm shedding tears of joy. Thank you, Akihiko. Good job! Well, you heard the explanation, folks! That's what happened! (HEY!)
D: Nice to meet you, Oda-sensei! There's something I've been wondering about as I watchedOne Pieceand it's about that guy.Pandaman! He seems to appear in the anime during the same scenes as the manga. Did you have to tell the staff in which scenes he's in?
O:No, no, I've never told them even once. He even shows up in places where I didn't draw him. It's just the animators having some fun. I told the voice actors to have fun and ad-lib some lines if they feel like it. Generally, aside from important, serious scenes, I don't mind them having fun with the work and playing around because the viewers will be able to feel that sense of fun too.
That's it for the SBS, see you next volume!
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 32.
D: Hello, Oda-cchi! Nice to meet you. I have to say I'm quite ticked right now! "HEY YOU! ONE PIECE READERS! Stop starting the SBS without permission! We should aknolwedge Oda-cchi's status as the creator!" Whew, it's nice to get that pent-up stress out.
Now then... START THE SBS!
-Ayako-
O:YOU'RE STARTING IT?! Ohhh, so that's how you're gonna play it, is that it?! Just when I thought I'd regain rightful control of the SBS as the creator too! WELL FINE! I'll wake up super duper early and get in line the next volume to finally start it myself!

D: Hello,Oda-sensei! Why doesGedatsu's hair change from scene to scene? Just how many locks of hair does he have? Please answer in Oda-speak.
-TAKE-
O:Oda-speak, eh? I'm impressed you knew about its existence. Very well! The reason why Gedatsu's hair changes is...!
BOTEMANOHONUSSODEREMOKEFYOBOTEMAMUCHAPOPOSHIBIWHOREALLYCARESMAHAHANYUNYONYON. That's why.
D:  A quick observation aboutEnel. When I realized that his line, "I am God"(神なり,Kami Nari?)is the same as the word for lightning(雷,Kaminari?), I thought I should recommend you as the next presidential candidate for the WOF (World Oyajigag Foundation), to which my father serves as the current president.
Ojayigag (literally meaning "old man humour") refers to lame, usually pun-related jokes that only old Japanese men would make and find funny.
O:Well this is unexpected. I'm still a peppy young man in my 20s. Please don't.
D: Odatsu-sama! If you roll your eyes to the back if your head, you won't be able to draw your manuscript!
-Dorapiece-
O:Ahh! How careless!
(me trying to draw Luffy with my eyes rolled back) →
D: Salutations, your Grace. Forgive me for robbing your Grace's precious time but I bring a question. During the bath scene ofVolume 23, the men attempted to peek at the nubile bodies ofNamiandVivi. Now, although I can comprehend why Sanji, King Cobra and Igaram wished to peek...
Why in the hell didLuffy,UsoppandChopperpeek too?!
PLEASE ANSWER ME(SERIOUSLY)!
If you don't give me a serious answer, I... I... I'll SUE YOUR PANTS OFF!
-President of the Association to Prevent Peeping Boys, Shikobaya Pinoko-
O:Why, you ask? Well, that's because they are all healthy boys. I don't think there needs to be any other reason than that. But for Chopper, he might have done it just because everyone else was. Frankly, to not want to peep on a beautiful girl when she's naked is a great disrespect to that girl in my o-
Ahem, I mean, inSanji's opinion.
D: Ohh Enel, Enel, wherefore art thou Enel?
-Hina-
O:Right. Thanks for the postcard.
D: Dear Oda-sensei, previously in the 27th volume, you talked about the pseudonymous Sokotsuya-san. And now Sue's voice actor is credited as Sokotsuya-san. Who is the voice actor this time then? Please give us the real answer.
O:The real answer is Nami's VA,Okamura Akemi. It's pretty hard to tell, isn't it? Fans of theanime, listen very carefully at the voices for the animals. Sokotsuya is one of the voice actors among the regular crew.
D: You know when Sanji and Usopp are climbing the ark on the 5th panel ofVolume 30p. 153? What exactly is Usopp wearing?
WHAT'S THAT "SPLAT"? WHAT IS IT!?
-One Piece Fanclub No. 009-
O:OCTOPUSHOES. They're OCTOPUSHOES. A brand new invention developed at Usopp's Factory,Octopak Shoes!! They have suckers on the back, so technically if you wear four, one for each limb, you should be able to climb anything, or so says Usopp, at least. We're not sure exactly how powerful they are. But anyways, try saying "Octopushoes" quickly ten times!
D: Good evening, Oda-sensei. It's a bit abrupt but let's have a match! Acchi Muite Hoi (right)!. I won, so here's my question. Just what are those things sticking out from the heads ofSkypieacitizens? Some sort of supports? They're really thin though, so I can't imagine them supporting much. Please ANSWER PROPERLY! (says in a commanding tone)
-Apple Lapple-
O:...I lost. I actually lost at Acchi Muite Hoi.... Umm, anyways, those things are like, uh, natural perms. They also call'em NABH (short for Natural Advertisement Balloon Hair). How can they stand up so straight despite being so thin, you ask? It's cause, uhh, they're giving their very best.
D: That "Conine" medicine thatMont Blanc Nolandmade really exists, doesn't it? The other day I just opened up a dictionary and happened to see a definition for "quinine", which is made from the bark of a "quina tree". Is that the basis for the medicine in the story?
-Chief of the Top Secret One Piece Intelligence Gathering Agency-
Quinine: An alkaloid made from quina bark. Works to relieve fever and stomachaches. Especially effective against malaria.
O:Yes. It does exist. However the "wood fever" that I described in the story does not exist, so have no fear. Covering topics about disease is always delicate, as there is always the chance that people will find it too upsetting or it has too deep a historical context. Therefore authors tend to fudge the details somewhat.
D: Oda-sensei, HESO! I am an 8-year old girl who likes animals andOne Piece. I found a bird named "Aisa" in a book of animals. Did you take ShandiaAisa's name from the bird?-Nacchan-
O:That's right! It's a bird. Whenever I have trouble with a name, I just open my handy-dandy book of birds. It works pretty well for girls' names!
D: Hello! Odacchi-sensei. I've always wanted to ask you about something, and that subject is... the anime voice actors! I think it would be really neat and informative to have profiles or messages from the cast that breathes life in Luffy and friends! By the way, I am a big fan of Zoro's VA,Kazuya Nakai.
O:A lot of people are asking for this. I'll have to think about it.
D: Oda-sensei, try changing the "shi" inNico Robin's "shinko furuuru" (Cinco Fleur) to "chi". If you don't say it... I'll do it.
-Ryou-
O:So "Chinko Fleur"? (sounds like "wave your wang around")
CHINKO FURUURU! (mimics Robin's voice)
HEY WAIT A SECOND!
Don't make me say that! Thismangais an extremely refined and elegant piece of art.
Please don't dirty it.

D: What's the situation underneath thoses leaves aroundWiper's waist? Is he letting'em "hang free"?
-Shouei-
O:HANGING' FREE, BROTHA!. (thumbs up!)
I think. But it must be troublesome to have them swinging wildly during battle. Hmm, maybe he's wearing some sort of loincloth underneath.
Well... I dunno. ("HEY!")
D: One day, my friend "H." was telling me, "Hey, did you know Enel's stretchy ears (<3) are actually..." and then he received judgement and was blown to smithereens...
What was he treying to tell me, even though he knew his life was in danger???!!!
O:Enel already left for theFairy Vearthso I'll answer for him. Enel's stretchy ears are actually made of mochi... (sticky rice cake)
YAHAHAHA!
KABOOM!
(Due to author absence, the SBS is now concluded)
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 33.
D: Yooooo, Oda(T)! I looooveee One Piece as always (and the SBS too)! <3 So please let me say that popular phrase...! <3 Huh? Oda(T)'s not here! Oh welll!LET'S START THE SBS! <3Awesome, I got to say it! <3 Sorry, Oda(T)!
-P.N: President of the Friends of ONE PIECE organization-
O:Ughh... Adding so many hearts... But it's soooo cuuuuuteee I'll forgive youuu <3 I was waiting since morning to start the SBS, but I'll forgiiiveeee youuuuu <3
D: Hello, Oda-sensei. One Piece continues to make me laugh, cheer me up and give me dreams. Thank you very much.
TAKE THIS! ODA!! (...sensei) "USOOOOPP! SPELL!" (DON!)
"Black ink spills over your completed manuscript!" (Splash!)
"All your assistants suddenly couldn't come to work!" (Empty Silence!)
"3 blank pages turn up in your finished manuscript after handing it in."  (Flap...)
How's that? -From Hokuto Volume Destroyer-
O:IT WAS COMPLETELY INEFFECTIVE. (Collapse!)
D: Hello, dear Oda-sensei who has a wonderful smile. I enjoy readingOne Piecevery much. By the way, I tried very hard... even having to skip meals... to find how many timesPandaman, the character that could even be said to be your cameo, appeared during theSky Island arc.
And the result! Pandaman appeared...
(Drrrrrruuuuummmroooolllll!)
17 times! Am I right?
by Hikari
D: Oda-sensei! I searched for Pandaman in Volumes 5 to 31, and I found he showed up 92 times! Aim for 100!
P.N. Pandaman No. 2
O:Well done, all of you. But I can't tell you the real answer. (← doesn't remember)
D: I have a question. IfWapolateLuffy,Nami,Sanji,Zoro,Chopper,UsoppandRobin, and then performed the "Miracle Combination" like in Volume 17, what would happen? Please draw the result. Also, what would its name be? By Kiyutaro (^_^;)
O:
Name: Gargon (randomly picked)
Volume 17, Miracle Combination (Chessmarimo!!)

Note (↑):Left side from top: Luffy, Chopper, Nami and Zoro. Right side from top: Sanji, Robin and Usopp.
D: Greetings, Oda-sensei. I'm always enjoying your manga. Cutting to the chase, I have a question about the "monsters" in Vol. 32,Chapter 299. At the highest peak of theHarzMountain ranges in Germany, located on theMt. Brockenthere's a phenomenon termed theBrocken Effect. Was this what inspired your idea?
Sorry if I'm wrong... In any case, please take good care and work hard! <3 P.N. Akiu
O:Yes, actually. It's also known as the Brocken Spectre. It's caused by the same reason you see in my story, so it can also happen in Japan. Also, around the head of the shadow you can see a beautiful ring of rainbow light, which is known as a "goraigou", or "glory" in English. I'd like to see one with my own eyes, once. It must be cool.
D: Greetings, Oda-sensei. I have a question to ask you. In Volume 28, Luffy sang songs about "Southern Islands" and "Northern Islands", but are there also songs about Eastern and Western Islands? If there are, please tell me.P.N. Kawagucchi Yuzo
O:Well then, allow the man himself to sing'em! Take it away!
Luffy:Yo. Huh? You want to hear my song? Sure, no problem.
"Hmmmm-hmhmhmhmmIn the Eastern islaaands, the Sun is early to riiiiiisssseee!Gets'em all hyper hyper, its people are foooooolllllsss!In the Western islaaands, the nights are looonnggg!Gets your body itchin for action, its people are fooooollllsss!Aaaaahh, ah ah ahaaaa... that was a yaaaawnnnn!Everyone's a smiley smiley fooooooooolllll!"
And that's how it goes! See ya!
O:There you have it. I feel like I should stop trying to live life so seriously. Next question, please.
D: Good day to you, Odacchi! By the way, I'd like to know the birthday of our idol,Tashigi-chan. Since she's so clumsy (toroi), how about if its October 6 (to = 10, ro = 6)?! OK, that sounds awesome! Wonderful!
...and so, Master Chief Petty Officer Tashigi's birthday is
OFFICIALLY OCTOBER 6TH!
Anybody got a problem with that?! Bring it on!!
(Eeek, I'm sorry!! I love Tashigi. Please give her a birthday!!)
P.N. Spicy☆Taro
O:Yeah, that's fine.
Top: Love Hurricane! Right: Sue!
D: "CAN LOVE HURRICANES SUDDENLY FORM?!"P. N. Mikan Chips
O:YES.That's because love can strike at any time to steal your heart away.
(Wow, I said something cool.)
D: Hello, Oda-sensei. I have serious suspicions, so forgive me if I pose a serious question. It's about the names ofEnel's specialattacks. It seems to me like many originate from the names of Scandinavian gods and Indian spirits. Can you please tell us what they all came from originally?
O:Yes. Well. The names came from a variety of sources. I can't tell you a whole lot of in-depth information, but in general it's pretty simple.
That should cover it. Also, "Vari" came from the sound of lightning "vari vari". So it was pretty much random. Not a real word in any language per se.
Heso!
D: Oda-sensei, I have a question. On page 71 of Volume 30,Conissays, "I have to bring them back!!" and then "Heso!" If "heso" is supposed to mean "hello", then this doesn't make much sense... What exactly does it mean? I've been wondering so much that I finally wrote this postcard. Please tell us the answer.P.N. Wanko
O:"Heso" can be thought of as the stock term for allSkypieansgreetings. There's no one word/phrase in Japanese/English that completely corresponds to it. It can mean anything from, "good morning", "good day", "good evening", to "how are you feeling", "goodbye", "take care", among others.
It really depends on the context.
When they say "heso", you answer "heso". It's all in the context.
(Note: "Heso" is Japanese for bellybutton)
D: Hello, here's my question! IfTonjit-sanwas on those stilts for ten years...
How did he go to the bathroom?! W... was it...?
Please answer inTONJIT-SPEAK.
O:IN HIS PAAAAAAAANTS.
And now, to wrap things up...
D: SBS! WILL NEVER END!
O:NO, IT'S OVER! See you next volume!!
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 34.
D: Robin says, "Sorry to do this when you've been waiting in line first thing this morning to start the SBS, but... Don't you think you ought to atone for insulting my Cinco Fleurs inVolume 32? What a terrible thing you did... You're a naughty child that must be punished.
SEIS FLEURS... CLUTCH! (Crack!) CIEN FLEURS... DELPHINIUM!
Fufufu... Now then, shall we begin the SBS?"-by Anonymous Hope-
O:Ugh...! I'm sorry... I won't ever... call it... Chinko (penis) Fleurs aga... (Collapse!)
D: I was shocked when I saw how clearly rippedLuffy's abs are. Do you have ripped abs like Luffy, Oda-sensei?-P.N. Handaccho-
O:Why, of course I do. Seriously like, when I take my shirt off... it's just insane. You wouldn't really think so, normally, but look at when I slouch forward... See? There are three separate areas on my stomach, clear as day. What? Those are stomach folds? What are those? What are you talking about?! Look at my tummy! Look! (Blob!) Look! (Blob!)
D: Doesn't anyone on Luffy's crew fall in love? Will there never be a tale of on-board romance? (Sanjiis an exception in this case) I'm just wondering.-From Naoko-
O:But they do... They're all in love...
WITH ADVENTURE. (← good one)
D: Oda-sensei!! I have a question. What is... a "believing heart"?
O:Good question. The answer to this is something you'll have to find yourself. It'd be easy for me to answer you myself (← doesn't know), but it's important for you to find the answer on your own by living life and eventually running up against it! (← has no clue)

D: Hello, I always read and enjoy your manga. To get to the question, Sanji sometimes says something about a "Brother Soul", but what kind of soul is it exactly? Is it tasty?-From ordinary citizen-
O:It tastes like umeboshi. Now, what kind of soul is it? It's a "Hey yo! Ain't I the shiznit?!" "Hell yeah, brother, you're slick!" "What the hell? No, YOU'RE slick, punk!!" "Yeah, I'm No. 1 in this town!" "Wahahaha"- kind of soul.

D: Oda-sensei hello! I have one question. WhenItomimizu's Super SparrowChuchuneats food, does it grow teeth, like the Super Spot-Billed DuckKaroo? It was so cute, I was drawn to it instantly. I want to know more about Chuchun. By then! (P.S. I hope more of these Super animals continue to show up!)-P.N. Super Octopus-
O:Yes, it has teeth. Its favorite foods are Super Worms, Super Sharks, and Super Footballfish.
D:
(Even a weekling like me was able to turn into this in only THREE MINUTES!!
Grand Line resident, T.C.
I used to be treated like an idiot or a little kid, but after seeing an ad for rumble balls in a magazine and trying it out, I became like this!! Now I'm the center of attention!!)
P.N. Jack Toshio
O:Hey (laughs)!. TheRumble Ballis amazing! Why don't we all go out and buy some today?!

D: On p. 80 of Volume 9, a man with a strange hairdo named CommodorePudding Pudding(Purin Purin) of the 77th Marine Branch was introduced. Was he modeled on Purin Purin-chan from the 1981 anime, "Tales of Purin Purin"?? I've been wondering for ages. Please tell me.
-P.N. Kana-chan-
O:Wow, that takes me back. It wasn't really a model, just a vague memory. It's not as if I liked the show. It was a puppet show aimed at girls, featuring a princess named Purin Purin, right? I guess she got that name because she was a princess. My older sister liked the show, but all I could remember was, what a dumb name and hairstyle. I'm guessing you saw a rerun and noticed the similarity, Kana-chan. Thank you. They sure had a lot of weird puppet shows back then.
(Purin Purin: Man, I can't even remember what she looked like now.)
D: Hello, Oda-sensei. I have always enjoyed readingOne Piece. Now forgive me for being so blunt, but I want to see Luffy try on all the wigs in the changing room on 2nd panel of p. 168 in Volume 33! Please, Oda-sensei!! Do it for me!!-P.N. Naopi-
O:Oh yes, all those mysterious costumes. I left that one up to my staff member Y-san, since that's in his field of interest. He happens to be the father of one child who lovesSailor M**nvery much. By the way, my workplace is a collection of freaks and weirdos.

They all look pretty intimidating, don't they?

The Foxy Pirates mention Peanuts Strategy.
D: In Volume 33, "Davy Back Fight!!" p. 152, what do peanuts have to do with "Peanuts Strategy"?-P.N. Kissa-
O:I dunno... I tried using it in a sense like "coward". For fun. It's not like I'm making fun of peanuts or anything. Peanuts from Chiba are yummy.
D: Would you care for some  delicious green onion cakes?
P.N. Green Onion Bear, Maria
O:Awesome, green onion cakes! Wha? I can really have some? Mmnn! I can hardly describe this wonderful harmony brought out by the taste of green onions and cream...

D: Odacchi, greetings! I've been harboring some doubts lately. InChapter 277of Volume 30, when Luffy is trying to escape from the giantanaconda, he opens up the snake's eyelids, but how can he do that when he's inside the eye? Please ask Luffy how he did that!!
O:Yeah I know, that didn't make any sense. Luffy! Come here!!
Luffy:What? What's the problem? There's nothing wrong about this.
O:Yes there is! How do you raise the eyelid from inside the eyeball? And while we're on that subject, how can you be INSIDE the eyeball in the first place?!
Luffy:It's all right, don't worry about it. Wasn't it funny?
O:Yeah, I guess it was! That's the key.
Luffy:Yep yep, ahahaha.
O:Ahahahahaha...
D: Oda-sensei, good afternoon. Try saying Nami's special attack "Tornado Tempo" (Torunēdo Tenpo) but insert "chi" instead of "te". If you don't say it, you can't end the SBS.
O:That's TORNADO CHINPO. TORNAAADO CHINPO!! OK! See you next volume!! Oh, wait. Isn't this... sexual harassment?
Hey... Was that...sexual harassment?
(Note: "Chinpo" means "penis" in Japanese.)
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 35.
D: Ding-dong ♪Oda-saan. I have a delivery for you. These are such beautiful flowers. Oh! There's a card. Well then, let's see what's in it. It says "...START THE SBS". Well, please do your best with your job. *click*.
O:Thank you, I appreciate it. I reluctantly accept this bouquet of flowers. Yep. I mean, THE SBS STARTED!! (BONN!!)
D: Oda-sensei, onp. 104 of Volume 32, panel 6,ChopperandSanjiare dancing, but Sanji is dancing with some old lady!! Who the heck is she?! Just some woman?
O:Oh... you meanMarilyn? She was "Miss Skypiea" 40 years ago. The most beautiful woman in Skypiea (back then). GodEnelis scary, but so is the flow of time (ooh, that was clever).
D:Does the name "Nola" (in Skypiea) come from "nora-inu" (wild dog)? Or is it from "Mont Blanc Noland"? Did she get the name fromKalgara, because he wanted to meet Noland so bad? Thanks!
O:The Nola is from "Noland".Setonamed her.
D: I would like to ask you something, Odacchi. In the first panel ofp. 21 of Volume 33, why doesRobingive Chopper her half-eaten cotton candy? This makes it an indirect kiss. If she wasn't going to eat the whole thing, she shouldn't have started at all!!

O:Look back two pages. "Nami-san, they're selling cotton candy", says Sanji as he brings back two. These are of course for Nami and Robin. It would be unladylike for Robin to take it and give it directly to Chopper, so she shows good manners to Sanji by taking a bite first before handing it over.

D: Oda-sensei-sama. Please hear my question. I was just thinking... WHAT WOULD HAPPEN IFMR. 4GOT HIT BYFOXY's NORO NORO BEAM?
O:OK, to test this out, I'll pretend to be Mr. 4 saying "Oh crap!!" after being hit by the beam. Ready, set,
OHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH-
HHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH-
HHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH...
Ohiru Rider
D: Do you remember Ohiru Rider, from the SBS in One Piece Volume 29, p. 148? Today I'm introducing his friend. It's "Asa Pierrot"-kun!
Asa Pierrot
He isBuggy's master, and is friends with Ohiru Rider.
(Note: Ohiru means noon, and is represented by the kanji昼. Asa means morning, and is represented by the kanji朝. In both cases, the kanji is transformed into a face as shown here and inSBS Volume 29.)
O:Wow. That's interesting, "Asa Pierrot". After the volume in which I drew "Ohiru Rider", many readers start drawing it in the margins of fan letters (*laugh*). 
So this time I'll add one more person, allow me to introduce "Tsurumihamarumarumushi-jiisan"! Here he is →
(Note: Tsurumihamarumarumushi is spelledつる三八〇〇ムシ. The symbols all combine together to make the face in the picture.)

D: Hi there, Oda-sensei.One of the guysin theFranky Familyis wearing fishnet tights. Is that his own sense of fashion? Or is that what you're into? I'm so curious, I can't even sleep in class. Please tell me.
O:If you'll allow to dispute this point, I can say I am not into that kind of thing at all, SWEETHEART.

D: Oda-sensei, I was curious; isFoxythe Silver Fox'sNoro Noro no MiaLogiatype,Parameciatype, orZoantype? I'll be too anxious for your reply to use the bathroom, so hurry it up.
O:It's a Paramecia (superhuman) type. Logia (nature) type can turn their bodies into something completely different. Zoan (animal) type can turn into animals. Everything aside from those is lumped into the Paramecia (superhuman) category. However, there are some Paramecia who can change their own bodies, as well.
D: Now that so manyDevil Fruithave appeared in the series, do you ever wonder if it would have been better to makeLuffyeat a different fruit other than theGomu Gomu no Mi?
O:Nope. I absolutely agonized over this before the series began, but not at all since. I love the idea of a rubberman. Well actually, I've flirted with the idea of theEro Ero no Mi(Love-Love Fruit)maybe 13 times since then.
D: Good evening, Oda-sensei!!! I was just wondering what the heck those things onMont Blanc NolandandMont Blanc Cricket's heads were. Please choose from the following answers.
OK, let's hear the answer. Oh, and keep up the good work.
O:Ummmmmmmm... Well... uhhh... how about... A.
D: Hello there, Odacchi-sensei! I really really really really really love Robin! But there's something that bothers me. She has such clean and beautiful arms, and when she uses theHana Hana no Mipowers, it makes pretty arms, right? What if someone with really hairy arms ate the fruit? Would they sprout really hairy arms, too? That would be disgusting.
O:
Yes. As you can see in the figure above, it is pretty awesome. And so, the SBS ends hair. See you in the next hair-raising volume.
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 36.

D: IsPagaya's catchphrase "I'm sorry"? Also, why is it "I'm sorry"?
O:I don't know. I'm sorry.
D: When you're low on strength, Oda-sensei, do you use afro power as well? P.N. C-kun♡
O:Of course. You can't very well draw a weekly serial without using afro power. I wanna be the champion one day.
D: Oda-sensei, I have one question. And that is: what is a "cutlass"? Is it a sword? Or a gun? Please tell me. P.N. Chopper LOVE
O:Right. Well. As you can see ↓ it's a sword. It was said to originally be a knife used for skinning animals, that eventually became a short sword that sailors (and navy men) wore. InOne Piece, they look like the figure drawn on the right.
Left:Cutlass (Short and wide blade).Right:One Piece version
D: Oda-san!! It seems that lately, the admiration of men about the world, the "Hercules" and "Atlas" are sold in normal pet shops. What do you think of this? The adults of today could not imagine such a thing when they were kids! Is it good for a "man's wish" to be so easily obtained? Please, say something to the children of today!! P.N. Miyama Mei
O:I have received this postcard from a passionate adult. Yes. Long ago, we could not hope to see insects from other countries, so boys could only look at books of insects and dream of the Hercules Beetle, the largest in the entire world. And now you can easily see it right in Japan. It's amazing. However, when you think that the reason the boys of today can see these insects in person is because today's adults have fulfilled their dreams of bringing these bugs here, I think it's a wonderful thing.
D: WhenZorowas being scouted forBaroque Works, what didMr. 7look like? by Double-Piece
O:
Mr. 7: Join meee ← Like this

D: InChapter 322, "Puffing Tom", Zoro callsSanji"Darts". Why "Darts"? P.N. Lovely Eyelashes
O:Was it too tough to figure out? I had several people ask this question. I don't think he was referring to the darts themselves, but the dartboard. Because it's all swirly. Geez! Stupid Zoro! Make a bit more sense, would you?!
D: Deer, Tanuki, Reindeer, Human. How many parts of each do you need to make a Chopper? P.N. Chopper LOVE♡
O:1 part deer, 7 parts tanuki, 1 part reindeer, 1 part human, please.

D: IsGod Enel's favorite food apples? (P.N. Raiden-san)
O:Yes. That's right. I like them too. Oops! You weren't asking my opinion. I like pears, too. Oops! You weren't asking my opinion.
D: Good day, Oda-sensei. You know, thatNami-chan is so gorgeous!!! That beauty, that figure! I'm already swooning ♡ By the way, when you compare her to the Nami-chan in Volume 1, haven't her breasts grown somewhat? by Saori-chan
O:Yep. I get this a lot. But when you consider that she's only 18, she's still in her growth phase. She's got more room to grow! I'll give it my best!! (←?) And Robin's only 28! I'll give it my best!! (←?)
D: Howdy, got a question. What are the bounties in the world ofOne Piecebased on? Is it strength? But in that case, wouldn'tCrocodile's bounty of around 80 millionBellybe a bit small? Or does it get higher the more bad things you do? Or is this just a mistake of yours, sensei? The answer to this question has lead to a "Forehead-flicking contest" that is currently spreading throughout my school. Help meeee!! P.N. Master Donuts
O:This is a tricky question, the more you consider it. The "Seven Warlords of the Sea" are on the government's side, so their bounties are removed once they are accepted. So the Warlords's numbers are called former bounties, but because Baroque Works was secretly formed after Crocodile became a Warlord, the number won't change to reflect that. If Crocodile still had an active bounty, it would probably be at least double that of 81 million.
D: In Volume 32,Chapter 297, how did Luffy blow up that big zappy thing (Raigō)?? And what is the "curtain" that Nami mentions?? I looked it up, but I don't get it!! Please explain to me ★ P.N. crush
O:Well... how should I explain? First of all, all you really need to understand is the intensity of the scene. The Raigō is a mass of thunder clouds. Just think of thunder clouds as big masses of stress with electricity inside. The thunder clouds want to smash that stress into something. That's when lightning reaches down to the ground.
Yamada
It's like when you hear "Lightning just fell on that tree!" Or "Yamada just got hit by lightning!!" That's called discharge. However, discharge doesn't always have to occur outside the clouds. Sometimes the lightning starts zapping around within the clouds. This is called "curtain discharge" or "curtain lightning". Gold conducts electricity, so when Luffy thrust that golden ball into the Raigō, the lightning all zapped through it and disappeared. But Luffy didn't really understand what it was that he did. It's all OK. Just remember, everything cleared up. And today, Skypiea is at peace.
THE SBS IS OVER!!
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 37.

D: Wait ×2Oda-sensei~. I never heard you were married!! Why didn't you tell us earlier?! And that you're 30 now... aargh!! I don't have anything to give you for a gift. So... I've just got one thing to say. "START THE SBS ♡." Yaay, congratulations. Ahh, I feel so much better now. P.N. Sai Too
O:Thank you very much! Wait- IT STARTED ALREADY!!! (gonnn) Aww, that's OK, I forgive you this time. I've gotten a literal mountain of congratulatory mail on this, so I'm in a good mood (grin). An author with good fans is a happy author. But just so you know, this hasn't changed the way I live my life one bit, so I'll still be living the same manga life I always have!
D: I have a question, Sensei. In the middle of theSky Island arc(Chapter 244),Luffyis shown wearing a wristband and bracelet. Why is this? Is he just dressing up? He took them off when they left the island.
O:Right. No meaning to it. It's just for fashion. To be precise, at the time he was withUsoppandSanji. When they were changing into their adventure gear, Luffy stared at them and thought, "Ooh! That looks adventurous!" and borrowed the wristband from Usopp, at which point Sanji said, "Put this on, too," and gave him the bracelet. Something like that. Basically Luffy, Zoro and Chopper cannot dress up on their own. If they do, it's because either Sanji, Usopp, Nami or Robin is with them.
D: I was just thinking, whenChopperis his teeny (normal) size, how does he hold things? Does he squeeze them in between his hooves? I can't help but wonder. P.N. Greenapple
O:These things are best shown through art.
THAT'S HOW!!! HE GOT IT!!! (attempts to silence argument by sheer force)
D: Odacchi! I have a question. Do you come up with theDevil FruitPowers that are original to theAnimeshow? Let me know.
O:Basically, all that happens is that the anime's scriptwriters come up with powers that they want to use in the story, and I say "Yeah, that sounds good," or "No, sorry, I want to use that one in the future." That's all.
D: Odacchi-sensei. I'm super ×2 curious about something! And that is... whose nose is longer, Usopp orKaku? Plus, Odacchi-sensei, it's not very nice to draw people with artificial noses. Damn is it long. P.N. From the crew
O:Let's compare.
Aha! Usopp wins by a rounded nose-tip!
D: DID YOU CALL ME? (Enelappears). from Tada-kun
O:No no... huh? Wah! Scary! It's Enel. I can't move! He zapped me. Ow! Next one, please.

D: To Oda-sensei. I thought the scene whereKalifa-sanmakesIceburgtea was really nice. What does a woman need to become a wonderful secretary like Kalifa-san? from #1 Fan.
O:Glasses and papers. And you should say "Insolence!" a lot.

D: How manyMarimosis your brain, Sensei? (Assuming Einstein's is 273 Marimos) P.N. Kamaboko
O:How many Marimos? I think you mean "How many SUPER Marimos!" ...OK, I regret saying that.
D: YAY. KAPOW (PUT ON AFRO) OH YEAH!!! OLA!! P.N. Tamago
O:Okay. Next.
D: Shimaboo (Mitsutoshi Shimabukuro) said that he went on a trip to an onsen hot spring last year with about 10 other manga artists. Did you go too? Or not? Were you late for the bus?! P.N. Monday-Saturday
O:I did. The hot springs are so pretty with all the snow. And because it was outdoors, I went running around in the snow and CAUGHT A COLD!! (AS DID SOME OTHERS)
D: Good day, Oda-sensei. I am Richie Usapon, president of the Japan Healthy Men's Organization (current members: 1). I have a request to make of you, Oda-sensei... actually to Sanji-san. "PLEASE TELL MEROBIN's MEASUREMENTS!!" I am so, so so serious.
D: Hi, Oda-sensei! In Volume 36 you were saying thatNami's breasts had grown in size from years ago, so what are her 3 sizes now? I'd bet that every man in the country is dying to know this, so don't hold out on us!
O:What are you guys?! 3 Size Explorers?! Well... I do get these questions a lot!! And they never end. So let's settle this one once and for all. Come on out, Mr. Cook!!
Sanji:There's got to be a better way to introduce me! Well anyways, I know what's going on... and I'm your man for the job. Here are their measurements according to my well-trained eye!!
Nami:Height169B95W55H85.Robin: Height188B99W59H89
Whew, that's hot! I'm in love all over again!
O:Look out, here comes Nami! Run for it!! Pyeeoow! (Escapes)
Sanji:Oooooh! Nami-saaaan ♡
Nami:Stop publicizing everything! WHACK
Sanji:AAAAaaaahh...
Side View
D: Oda-shan, hello! Ummm, areMozu and Kiwi's hairstyles natural? Or is it some kind of crazy, ultra-fashionable hairdo? I wish I could see them from a direct side perspective. Thanx!! P.N. Afro Zoro = Natural Monument!!
O:Yes, of course it's for their fashion! The name of that hairstyle is the "Squfare." You pronounce it as if you were trying to say "square". Ready? "Squfare". Yes, let the tension out of your shoulders and say it lifelessly: "Squfare".
D: Odacchi! Do not say anything, just take thiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiis *COTTON* (Stack of accumulated homework) Well that's all ... goodbye ... from Iijima-kun
O:Ooooh, let's do the tasks! Let's see, 16/4 ... 16/4. 999/9 is ... 999/9. So it's easy. I was always good at dividing without a trace. I could calmly solve a whole book of such exercises! Kari kari kari *quickly writes* (passed 1 hour) Kari kari kari *quickly writes*... (1 hour has passed) Kari kari kari *quickly writes*... still *hrum* more... oops! It seems I ate a handful of mistakes. And again to the tasks! Kari kari kari kali kali kali kali kalifa kalifa... oops! I started thinking about the sexual secretary... Hey!! DO NOT GET YOUR HOMEWORK!!! (farewell joke successfully fixed) And all this for SBS! We're done! See you in the next volume!
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 38.

D: Hi there,Oda-sensei! I was just thinking. About the "Doa Doa no Mi". IfSanjiate the Doa Doa no Mi...NAMICOULD NEVER TAKE A BATH. Well, good luck with your work.
O:Man, you're so right. It would be like the end of the world. All the women in the world would live in terror of being seen in the bath. It's a horrifying thought.
D: The guy in the seat behind me is hitting me with the GOMU GOMU PISTOL, what should I do??
O:That's a big problem. But that would have to be Luffy. Give him some meat, and he'll behave, I bet.
D: Oda-sensei!! I saw Oda-sensei!! Said one of my friends!! (E-mail friend) He said you were looking at DIRTY MAGAZINES in a convenience store... don't sweat it too much. I always thought you were like that. Heheheh... I bet that's how you do research for Nami's body!!
O:SCOUNDREL!! I would not read such things in the store!! YOU SCOUNDREL!! I'D BUY IT!!
D: Hello, Oda-sensei!!! I have a question. On TV, they were saying how the "City of Water"Venicehas a high tide called the "Acqua Alta", which forces all the townspeople to wear long boots!! Is this what theAqua LagunainWater 7is modeled upon?
O:I'm sure lots of viewers must have seen that program, because I got a lot of these at the same time. Did the name "acqua alta" catch your attention? That's right. Venice is a very famous place in Italy for its "water city" nature, so I decided to make that the design model for this story. But of course, as you know, making things realistic means looking at all the problems of an area too, not just the pretty parts. And naturally, I added lots of manga-style action. But you should know that nothing like this really happens in real life, so feel free to take a vacation there. I'd like to go to Venice someday too.
D: Hey! Hey, it's me! Guess what! Oda-sensei!! I got in an accident, and I need 2 million yen right now!! Can you wire me the money? Also, I have a question. Is it possible for a lot of people to share one single fruit, or not? Can you do that? If so, what happens? Thanks for answering!!
O:What?! Oh my god! An accident?! OK, here comes your money!! YEAH RIGHT!! You swindler! Prepare to feel the wrath of the ODA SLIDING CHOP! OK, I just gave you a chop to the shin. Now, your answer. One fruit cannot be shared by many people. I get these questions often. The Devil Fruit Abilities are transferred after one bite. After that, it's just a nasty old fruit. In the instance that they take a bite at the same time, the power will belong to the one who swallows first. Nothing will happen if anyone else takes a bite. So in summation, a single fruit cannot give its powers to multiple people.
Longfish: Pound it out!!
D: There's one thing I don't understand. What kind of fish is a "Longhorn cowfish"? Obviously,Tom-san's got to be a bit overweight, right?! Can you give us one of your beautiful drawings, Ei-chan?! Thanks!
O:Yep. It looks like this. The skin is poisonous. (Tom-san's isn't.)
(Swindling money is a crime!!)
Davy Jones: It's all mine!!
D: Hi there, Oda-sensei!! I was watching a pirate movie on DVD with subtitles, and I noticed the actors were saying something about "Davy Jones's Locker". But the subtitles said "turned into fishfood". Could this Davy be the Davy inDavy Back Fight?! Was Davy Jones a real life pirate? Please tell us.
O:Well, to be clear, "Davy Back" doesn't exist in any legend. Davy Back Fight is a game that exists only in the world ofOne Piece. But the "Davy Jones Locker" that Robin mentions in Volume 33 is a well-known legend among sailors in real life. There are several different accounts, but in general there was a lying, no-good pirate named Davy Jones, a greedy deck chief who was famous for putting all the crew's valuables in his own locker. He was so wicked, even for a pirate, that one day the Devil himself cursed Davy to live at the bottom of the sea forever, swabbing the deck of a sunken ship and placing all the sunken treasure into his locker, where it would never be seen again. So when pirates say "Put 'im in Davy Jones' locker!!" it means "sink 'im to the bottom o' the sea!!"
D: Question for Odacchi. When theSea Trainleaves inChapter 354"Sea Train", is that kid with the runny nose in the bottom leftPaulie?! If you don't answer me, I'll tie you up with ropes!! (totally kidding)
D: Oda-sensei! Oda-sensei!! Are those girls in the Sea Train inVolume 37Mozu and Kiwi?! Oh... ohh...!! They used to be so cute...!! And look at them now... I don't remember raising them to be that way! Daddy is so sad. I'm gonna cry.
O:Oh yeah, I got a whole bunch of these. Of course, I drew them because I knew you would all notice. You're both right. Paulie took this excitement to heart and is still building ships today. Kiwi and Mozu also tried to be shipwrights, but they failed theGalley-La Companytests, turned bad, and then found work underFranky's lead. And by the way, The other guy I've shown above is another one of theFranky Familymembers,Zambai. He also wanted to be a shipwright, failed, and turned to crime. The Franky Family is all of the rejects and scoundrels of Water Seven working together. To them, Franky is like a savior.
D: Oda-sensei, please draw Enel-sama without his hat! I want to see it!
O:ALL DONE!
Wow... look at that punch perm!!He looks like some old lady... oops. I shouldn't have said that.Run for it!! (escape) rumble rumble KABOOM!!! Gyaa!!
D: Odacchi! I read One Piece! And laugh! And cry! I'm such a huge x(infinity) fan! So, I have a question for Odacchi and theStraw Hat Pirates! There are Spring, Summer, Autumn and Winter Islands. Which is everyone's favorite?
O:A question for everyone. Let's have everyone give their answer in turn! Take it away! You have 16 choices!
Oda:All right. I don't know if that's a valid answer, but whatever. See you in the SBS next volume!! Goodbye!!! Oh, I'll take a winter hot spring on a Summer Island.
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 39.

D: Oda Eiichiro-sama. Good day. Please forgive me for visiting you in my swimsuit... wait, huh?! Oda-san?! What in the whorld are you whearing?! Er, I mean, wearing?! Kyaaaa!! Nooooo!! Tmp tmp tmp (as she is leaving) Start the SBS!!P.N. Roronoa Robin
O:Hey, hi there folks. You just caught me getting caught with my pants down (so to speak) by a 
rather Parisian reader, whilst I was wearing a swan-shaped baby toilet on my head and a 
ballerina outfit, salvaging some carbonara, and now my corner has been started without me.
Well, let's get going!!
D: If you got poked in the butt with aShigan, what would happen?by Pacchon III
O:You'd die.
D: DoesNamiwear a "New Bra" or "No Bra"?P.N. Tasshii
O:No bra, I hope.
D: Oda-sensei, hello!! Umm, where doesPaulie's rope come from? And where did he come up with the names for moves like Rope Action "Half Knot"? They're not just random, are they? Tell us!by Buta-chan
O:Paulie's ropes come shooting out of the bottom of his sleeves. Apparently, there's a whole bunch of rope hidden in the lining of his coat! And his move names aren't random! Sailboating requires a whole bunch of different knots, and mistying a single one could spell the difference between life and death! So he uses the names of all the different knots (over 200) for the names of his special attacks!! But when he can't think of a snazzy knot that suits the situation... he'll make it up!
D: Oda-sensei pass! *toss* It's my bomb present of love!P.N. I am a guy!!!
O:Wow, thanks for the pres... Boom!!! Thunk!! Tweet tweet "HOO HOO" (Explanation: thrown back by the explosion into a giant cuckoo clock, stars and birdies float around my head, but instead of the cuckoo popping out of the clock, I pop out instead, with smoke shooting out of my mouth, crying "hoo hoo".)
D: Hello, Oda-sensei. I was watching TV the other day, when I saw a program with locomotives named "Puffing Billy" and "The Rocket". Are those the basis forPuffing TomandRocketman?P.N. Tako
O:Ahh, they did a program about those? That is correct. Puffing Billy is the name of the oldest locomotive in existence. And the Rocket was a train once famed for its great speed. Of course, they look totally different from the ones in the manga. By the way, when I was doing all sorts of research on trains, I learned that the name of the first man to build a steam engine was "Thomas". So I guess that's where the name of that popular kid's program came from. (Thomas the Tank Engine)
D: Hand me that soy sauce!!P.N. Hand me that salt!!'s friend
O:Oh, here you go.
D: Please show us the faces of "Michael" and "Hoichael" from the backstreets. I'm so curious I can't even get up in the morning.P.N. Sanji-niiyan Love
O:So, you got curious. I got a lot of these questions. They must be bad enough for Lulu and Tileston to think they would attempt to murder Iceburg. "Michael" and "Hoichael". Brace yourselves, and look upon the faces of these two gangsters!!
Michael and Hoichael
D: Oda-sensei, hello! I found a new member of the bird series!! It's Mos, right?by Maip.s.When I tried to write "hen" (weird) I accidentally wrote "koi" (love) twice in a row. Whose fault is that?
O:First of all, the reason you wrote "koi" is because you don't practice your kanji enough!!! (hard-ass) Also, "Mozu" is the name of a bird (shrike), but so is "Kiwi". And the Kiwi fruit is so named because it resembles the bird.
Results from the 1st One Piece "Your Favorite Attack" Poll!!!
#1) 3785 votesMonkey D. Luffy- Gomu Gomu Gatling
Luffy takes first place!! Several opinions such as "amazing" and "powerful"! Bowling over the enemy with its overwhelming strength!!
The Gomu Gomu Gatling received easily the most support of the many Gomu Gomu moves!! Taking full advantage of the characteristics of rubber, an attack with full points for strength and force!! Luffy's evolution never ends!!
#2) 3635 votesRoronoa Zoro- San-zen-se-kai
Zoro's most powerful attack doesn't give an inch!! But this close to #1, could it end up on top next time?!
Many people called it "awesome!!" and its power is ultimate class!! Diligence is required on the road to be the world's strongest swordsman!!
#3) 1445 votesSanji- Mouton Shot
Sanji, popular for his graceful legwork, takes third place with Mouton Shot! Keep it graceful, pal!! A cook doesn't use his hands for battle! Based on this mindset, he's destroyed all the best with just his legs!! It's got bite and power!!
Nami's Predictions Were on the Mark!!
As I expected, Luffy took 1st place here, but with Zoro, Sanji and more unseen moves in the future, it's sure to be quite a battle!! By the way, what about MY moves...?!
#4and onwardwill be introduced next volume!! What rank did YOUR favorite come in total?! And what about Luffy's most powerful attack of all?! Wait for Volume 40!!
D: Oda-sensei, hello. Poop. Here's a question for you: Isn't that a thief right in the money exchange office, panel four of p. 180,Volume 34??!! What's up with him? Poopy.P.N. Roids
O:Gross, what's with all the poop?! If you love poop so much, why don't you BE poop when you grow up?! (must have dreams) Anyways, they say you shouldn't judge people based on their appearances, but let's face it. He's totally a burglar. Of course, I assume he'd be after Luffy's money, but it was a twist of fate (not twist of poop) that he should come across somevery powerful pirates. He probably overheard about the bounties, and ended up unable to do a thing about it.

D: Oda-sensei! If you don't want your urchin packed into sushi, answer this question! On p. 65 ofChapter 360inVolume 38, Zoro is stuck in the chimney. But if he slipped up there, he would either fall off the side or go in feet-first, I think. So how did he get jammed in there like a sea anemone??P.N. Mahito
O:First of all, Zoro got knocked out of the Galley-la headquarters into the sea byLucci. After he got out of the water, soaking wet, what could have happened to him?
Zoro:"Shit, I got tossed pretty damn far."
"Where am I now?"
"All right, I'll take a look from that chimney up there."
-"Humph."
"Yikes, I almost fell INTO the chimney."
"Man, that hole goes in deep."
"Let's take a bit of a look-see."
"Hmmmm"
"Slip"
"Thwup!!"
D: I have a question. As much as I love the whole story ofOne Piece, I also find myself in tears just from the chapter titles sometimes. Just the other day I noticed that the title ofChapter 292, "We Cannot Meet Again; He is as the Half Moon, Vanished in the Clouds" was not only a haiku (in Japanese) speaking of the moon, but it also stood for Jaya and the Shandia...! This was so moving to me when I realized it. What are your favorite chapter titles so far, Oda-sensei? I'd love to know.P.N. Nenza (I also like "The Second Person" and "See?)
O:Aaaahh!! What a wonderful reader! It's all a manga-ka can hope for to have readers who are willing to read so deep into his work. Thank you. Yes, there are times when I put a lot of effort into chapter titles. When I find a really good title, it can pump me up sometimes, but since it's all part of my same work, I don't think there's much use in going on about this title or that. It's enough for me to know that there are people out there who like them. I'll have plenty more fun with them.

D: All right kids, it's time for bed!! (Make sure they're all asleep...) Now, it's time for the grown-ups' SBS. Odacchi!! InChapter 366, Sanji calls Nami, but where was she keeping that Baby Den Den Mushi? I hear that women have all sorts of places to hide things... I got so curious and worried that I can't sleep at night! I wonder if Odacchi himself could tell me the answer... Thanks!!by Kathy Keisuke
O:Uhh, you know that's a dangerous place?! Fraught with peril?! The Hidden"Nami Valley"?! If you get lost in there once, you'll never... CRACK!! Oww!! Something hit me!! Ah! I'm a good boy, I need to get to sleep! All right folks, see you next volume!! Zzz! Crack! Oww!!
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 40.
D: Hello Oda-sensei ♥ Lately my father (age 50) has been getting obsessed with theOne Piece anime, and he watches it fanatically every week. It's so great that One Piece can be enjoyed by anyone, from child to adult! (By the way, my whole family loves it) P.S. Begin the SBS.P.N. Kuri
O:Aww gee... your dad likes it too? Thanks, that's so HEY!!! THE SBS IS ON!!! Oh my God!! I thought this was just a normal fan letter!! All right! Let's go, then!

D: To Oda-sensei. You know what butt-chins are, right? What kind of chin doesFrankyhave?P.N. Freddie
O:Oh. Yeah, it's split in three. Well, two would be a "butt-chin" so I guess three is called a "butt-butt-chin". (labels point out butts and butthairs)
D: To Oda-sensei. Hello, I am about to have my fourth child. My daughter hopes it's another girl, but if it's a boy, I intend to teach him Okama Kenpo just likeBon Kurei. Where should I take him to learn this? Please tell me.(P.N. Bon Kurei Fanclub President)
O:Ballet → Karate → Working at one of "those" places. Follow the steps in that order.
D: Hi there, Odacchi! I've wondering about something you might be able to answer for me! SinceChapter 334, Nami's been wearing the same tanktop with a 3 on it. What does it mean?P.N. Hyu
D: Hello, Oda-sensei. If you have specific colors for each main character of One Piece, please tell us what they are.P.N. Daidai
D: I have a question!! If Chopper has such a splendid blue nose that he can tell where his crewmates are at any time, what do all the members of the Straw Hat Crew smell like? Does Luffy have a rubbery smell?? Let's ask Chopper.P.N. Budomaru
O:Yes, yes. There's a 3 on it. I combined all these questions into one. Each one's number, color and smell (according to Chopper).
D: *click* You BIG BOOB LOVER!!! (Ahem, pardon me.) *slam*... *click* *smack* (blown kiss) *slam*P.N. marimo
O:Whoa. The girls are rebelling. What are you gonna do about that, guys?! OK, leave it to me! I'll lay down the law for us all. What the hell are you talking about? I'm a goddamn shonen manga-ka! A MAN'S DREAM!! NEVER ENDS!!! (That was good)

D: Odacchi! Hello! I enjoy One Piece very much! But!! I always wonder about that trick of Robin's! "Cien Fleur" and "Seis Fleur" and all that! What language is that? Please tell ussssssss (Please?!)P.N. Pe
O:Cien = 100, Seis = 6. The numbers are Spanish. Fleur is French for "flower." And stuff like Clutch is all English. It's a big jumble, but as long as it sounds good I'm happy.

D: To Oda-sensei. Aren't you going to draw Robin's flashback? Robin: "Cinco Fleur!!"by Nami-n
O:Look out! I barely dodged Robin's attack. Her flashback? Sounds like a lot of readers are curious. I'm drawing it now! Yes, right now!! Which means it should be in the next volume. I'll do my best.
D: Why is Franky's fuel cola?from Shuu
O:COLA IS GOOD.
D: Oda teacher, how is the manga-drawing going? Well? Good. Anyways, I thought of a new attack for Luffy. It's called Gomu Gomu no Rain. What does it do? Well, he floats in the air with Gomu Gomu no Storm, then splutters a bunch of spit all over the place. How's that?Hehehehe.from Ryuta
O:THAT'S DIGUSTING!! AND IN A WAY EFFECTIVE!!

D: Oda-sensei... hey! I have a little request... On the first panel of p. 65 inVolume 26, Chopper is squeezing his hand in a fist, but! It still looks the same as it always does! Therefore! Can you show us what it looks like when he does Rock Paper Scissors?! Bye.P.N. Kachiwari-gori
O:Ahaa... the same...? You think it's the same when he makes a fist. All right, get out here Chopper!! Show 'em you can do Rock Scissors and Paper!
C:Hey! I can do that! (Rock, Scissors, Paper)
O:See that? Look how obviously different they... YOU CHEATED!! You did it in Human Form!! Of course that works!!
C:Fine, fine. You want me to do it with my hooves, right? (Rock, Scissors, Paper)
O:OK Chopper!! Thanks!!!
D: Odacchi, Wanze is really something. I mean, he can make noodles just by putting flour into his mouth!! But... don't you need water, too?? So instead of water... it's SALIVA? Still, it's amazing. He just shoots the noodles out of his nose, ready to eat!! BUT THEY'RE RAW!! Not cooked? Even a ramen lover like myself would not eat this. What about you, Odacchi? A little dinner?P.N. Umi
O:Yep. My dinner every night is a bowl of deeelectable Wanze Ramen! Yaaay! I mean, no!! You can't draw manga with a weak stomach. But the Wanze Ramen has earned itself a surging wave of hatred, and I think Green Gum Allergy-chan from Osaka has something to say about it too!
D: Message forWanze!! InChapter 368, he tells Sanji's group to "eat up" in one panel. But look at his finger! His thumb's stuck in the bowl! You can't eat that! No wonder they're all mad! You tell Wanze that.Reader Name: Green Gum Allergy
O:THAT'S THE WRONG PART TO COMPLAIN ABOUT!!! (GONNN!!)
D: Does every single person in One Piece have their nails cut down to the quick?!by Basil
O: WHO CARES?!! (GOGONNN!!) THE SBS IS OVER!! (See you next time)
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 41.
D: Heya, Oda-sensei. HNY!! & HDYD. I've got a very simple concern on my mind. Why is it that there are all these foreign editions ofOne Piece, and yet we never start the SBS in English...? I'll try it out. "Let's begin SBS!!" How about that? Now I can take my exams in peace!P.N. Nanpou
O:Ooh! I like the global touch. That's right, reach out and touch the world, SBS! When I try to imagine the SBS Corner being translated into other languages around the globe, I GET THE WILLIES (DONNNN)!!
D: ODA-SAN. PLEASE PUT HIM (→) IN THESEVEN WARLORDS OF THE SEA.from Hikari-kun
O:NO.

D: To Oda-sensei. The guard dog on the right in the first panel of p. 61 in Volume 40 looks like it's talking with the dog next to it. Is this true? If so, can we ask Chopper what it's saying?P.N. Right Baskerville
O:I wonder what he could be saying. Chopper!
Chopper:This is what they're saying. Left Dog: "I heardJabrafromCP9got turned down byGatherinethe waitress." Right Dog: "OMG really? (lol)"
O:Yes, it appears EVERY LIVING THING on the island cannot get enough of this rumor.
D: InChapter 367,Sanji-kundestroys theDen Den Mushi. That's so mean!!! The Den Den Mushi didn't do anything wrong! Even a Den Den Mushi would cry if that happened to it! It cries when it hurts! It cries because its heart hurts even more than its body! So let's apologize to it, shall we?P.N. Naoko
O:Oh, well, you see... OK, I admit, I may have created that impression, but it's okay. On the right is a wild Den Den Mushi. It has the ability to communicate with its species through radio (thought) waves. Humans attach buttons and receivers to them so they can contact specific other Den Den Mushi. So, you can destroy the receiver without hurting the Den Den Mushi.
D: ODA-SAN, THAT'S SEXUAL HARASSMENT.by Girls' Representative
O:What? What was?! I didn't even say anything that sexual!! This is so out of the blue.
D: WHAT CUP SIZE ISNAMI's 95CM BUST?by Nami-loving Erotic-man
O:YOU'RE THE CULPRIT!!! It's questions like these that get me in trouble with girls like the one above!! But we all wanna know, huh! Still, cups are hard to guess. They got all that under-this and thunder-that. It makes no sense. So let's ask our female readers for the answer. Girls, what cup are Nami and Robin? (← sexual harassment)
D: Oda-sensei, I have prepared a fresh, boiling-hot oden (hodgepodge stew) for you. Take it away, Sensei!!P.N. Demomo
O:Wow! I sure love oden. It's hot? No it ain't! Watch this, I'll totally eat this kinchaku mochi in one bite! YEOWWWWWWW!!! HOT-OT-OT-HOT-HOT! YAAAHH!! YEO-EO-EOWOWOWOWWW!!! Gyaaaa!! Look!! The skin of my gums is like... falling off!! Dammit!!! ...okay. Was that the kind of joke you were expecting?
(Note: Kinchaku mochi is a type of mochi (rice cake) that is used primarily in oden.)
D: A question for Odacchi! Lately, my family has surfaced a theory that:
Are these correct?By Hachikou
O:Why, absolutely not... W-w-we... we wouldn't do anything so... so punny. R-right,Zoro-kun? W-we wouldn't... it's just silly.
Zoro:Yeah, y... y-y-you're imagining things.
O:LOOK AT YOU, YOU'RE FREAKIN' OUT!!!
D: Gimme a backrub!!P.N. Mieda
O:Rub rub. Okay, next postcard.
D: In Chapter 376, "Got It!!!" what kind of autograph doesSogekinggive toChopper?? Tell me Please.by Identical to T-Bone (Actually, it is my sister who is identical to T-Bone)
O:Like this (→).
D: To Odacchi Do you think we can fly with will of spirit?P.N. Rikuzuki
O:Long ago, humans flew through the sky. Then, one time somebody said, "I'm not flying in the sky." Since then, people stopped flying. Because we lost our wings of "belief." Or whatever. Something like that. (← Hey!!)
D: What would happen if you got a haircut with Rankyaku?by Anga II
O:It'd slice your head right off and get rid of all your hair troubles forever! Or you might actually survive it. If you are one of those people, go ahead.
D: GOMU GOMUUUU!! 300 POUND!! CANNONNN!! DONNNNN!!.N. Bored Guy
O:"Soru"!! Whoosh!!
D: Hey, Oda-sensei!! This is kinda random, but I was just wondering whatWanze's thing (→) was used for?by Nappe
O:Those are "Pop Up Goggles"! Special ordered! He is the head cook, so of course, he uses them while cooking. It's for when he cuts the onions!! He absolutely treasures those goggles because they keep him from crying. Also, he does not use them for anything other than slicing onions!!
D: Odacchi! Here's a question for you!Crocodilecan't fight water because he's "sand," right? Then how does he bathe?! Does he at all?! That's filthy!! Do you bathe, Odacchi?by Crocodile's Mother
O: First of all, let's discuss the problem ofDevil Fruitusers bathing themselves. People who have eaten a Devil Fruit are "hated" by the sea, and cannot swim. The "sea" here can refer to anything from rivers, pools and baths to any kind of standing water. On a worldwide level, they are all the "sea." When these people enter the water, not only can they not use their powers, they have trouble moving their bodies at all. They might be able to struggle a bit, but it wouldn't do much good. That's if their entire bodies are submerged in the "sea." With less than half the body or just the limbs, it gets easier. Also, rain and dripping water have no effect at all. Therefore, hip baths or showers are the most common choice. Now, in Crocodile's case, "water" is the weakness of his very powers, so his abilities are robbed even in the shower. But it's not like there are enemies around when you take a shower, so I'd bet he would take them even with his powers being blocked. Don't you think? ---And to answer your final question, about myself bathing. As it happens, I do bathe. Twice! In a year!
See you next volume!
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 42.
D: Otada-sentasei, hetallota! Itas thtais hatard to reatad? Atand tanow, betagin the StaBtaS!!P.N. Tanuki
O:What?! Pen-name "Ta-nuki"?! As in, "take out the Ta"? Okay, so I'll just read this without the letters "ta". Here we go. "Oda-sensei, hello! Is this hard to read? And now, begin the SBS!!" Woo-hoo, that wasn't so hard!! Wait, THEY STARTED IT ALREADY!!!
D: Which is faster, between Captain Kuro's "Shakushi" and CP9's "Soru"? TELL ME.by Niku-oh
O:Ah yes. I got a surprising number of questions about this one. Captain Kuro's Shakushi (introduced in Volume 5) was a pretty tough one. To answer the question, speedwise they are about the same. But when Captain Kuro uses his trick, the speed is so great that he doesn't even know who he's attacking, but CP9 has complete control of their move at the same speed. So if there were a competition, CP9 would be overwhelmingly stronger.
D: Oda-sensei, hello!! InVolume 38, you wrote "When you don't know the answer on a test, just write instrumental", so I tried that myself. But when I got the test back, it was checked wrong. Why was it checked wrong? Please tell me why.P.N. Katsufumi Four!!
O:The results are not the point. The real treasure here is your courage, for taking the first step forward. (←?)
D: Oda-sensei!! Please help me!! My dad and I and my little brother are caught in theSogekingtrap! We can't get out!! We're always singing "On the Island of Snipers♪" whenever and wherever we go!! This must be that terrible affliction. The uh, "I-must-have-Soge-King-or-I-will-die-itis"!! Quick, what's the cure?! Tell me!! Soge!!by Mega King
O:Oh, I see. Okay! C'mon, Soge King!! Help us solve this problem!!
Sogeking:Hello there. Are you having trouble? Never fear! You will die without me? Don't worry, I'm not going anywhere! Why? Because... "The Island of Snipers" is... within your heart...
O:Okay, all done. Next question.
Sogeking:What do you mean, all done?!!
O:All done, all done.
Gatherine
D: Oda-sensei, I have a question. In Volume 40, p. 36 (Chapter 379, "Doriki") the waitress namedGatherine-santurned downJabra. What kind of guys DOES she like? Or does she already have a boyfriend? I can't sleep at night...It's all I think about...P.N. General Recycle
O:The idol ofEnies Lobby, Gatherine has pined after one man all of this time. Her exact words when she turned down Jabra were this: "I'm sorry, but I'm in love with Lucci-san!! I mean, all a guy has is looks, right?!" The number of men who have crashed and burned before this burning love must be countless. Good luck, Jabra!
CP7 Martial Artist, Wanze
O:Here's a sudden new project! I call it "(S)onna (J)ouhou (I)rimasen" (I didn't need to know that). The SJI Corner!! This time, I'll show you the faces of "Wanze" from my sketchbook before he became the guy we all know!!
D: Don't take all the sauce, jerk!!!by Sunny-Side Up Must Have Salt
O:Okay. Moving on.
D: Hi, Oda-sensei! I have a serious question.One Piecehas been going on for quite some time, hasn't it? Have you thought of the ending already? Though personally, I wouldn't mind if it continued on forever. One Piece is the BEST!!!from Mac
O:I've answered this in some magazines and interviews. Originally, my plan was that One Piece would continue for five years. I've always had the climax in my head from the start, I've just been working toward it since. But my original estimates were a bit short, and I was unable to finish up my story within five years (ROFL). And now our pirates have been adventuring for nine years, and I have no idea how much longer they will be at it (hey!).
D: O-Odacchi, what's up? Last month I bought the game "One Piece Pirates Carnival." Now, here is my question...
O:HEY!!! That's IT?! What's the question?!!

D: In the SBS Corner forVolume 41, you talked aboutWanze's goggles, remember? In actuality, the part of onions that causes you to cry comes in through the nose, so wearing goggles will have no effect. So, be sure to let Wanze know. "When you cut onions, just push those goggles right into your nostrils, then you're all set."from Housekeeping Student, Year 1
O:Ooh, I see. What a loser! Wanze, you dork! Hey! Consider yourself warned, thanks!
D: Hello, Oda-sensei. It's nice to meet you, I've always been a One Piece fan. Now, I have a bit of a serious question. In class the other day, I learned that the word "Rob" stands for "steal". So I got curious, and after searching, learned that "Lucci" means "light" in Italian. Put them together, it's "steal the light". I thought it was fascinating, because "stealing" is a concept that runs throughout One Piece, not just in this part. So you must have named him that on purpose, right?P.N. Refect
O:...y... y... well, yeah. I-I... I did (shocked). You know me. I'm the guy who comes up with the deep meaningful names. Yep. In fact, "Rob Lucci" even means "steal the light", or SO I HEAR. (←Had no idea)

D: I am "Sogeking-ko", a proponent of all healthy young boys everywhere! Healthy young boys of this country!! Remember the question in the SBS of Volume 41, asking aboutNami-san's cup size?! According to my rotoscopic vision, Nami-san's under bust size is 65. So her regular bust size of 95 would make her an I cup!!! (donnn) That's HUGE!!! I'm a D cup... Boys... can you accept this answer??
O:Well, I must say I received a lot of answers to this question from my female readers. Thank you for your detailed and in-depth explanations. But you know, the boys aren't gonna read any of these complicated, difficult answers, so I'm just gonna report on the most common result! Nami and Robin are I cups. Wow.
D: Now, I have a question. About the books being thrown away byOlvia's group in the 5th panel of p. 170 in Volume 41! The book titledBrag Men!! Isn't that the same as the one Nami's reading on p. 142 of Volume 13?! Isn't it?! Isn't it?! Okay, I asked three times. If I'm wrong, I'm gonna ring your doorbell and run away.From P*N Sogequeen☆★
O:Oooh. Here's a surprise. Thanks for reading so deeply into it. That's amazing. You are correct. It's the book that had info about the Island of Giants,Little Garden, a book that is read all around the world now, as a tome of "adventures on the Grand Line". Eyewitness tales about the unbelievable islands, people and happenings in this mysterious sea, related by fearless explorers, all so outlandish and bizarre to normal readers around the world that they were collected in a book of tall tales and given this humiliating title. If this book only exists today because the brave scholars ofOharagave their lives to protect it 20 years ago, it fills your heart with something warm. So, are these "Brag men" truly just liars? Maybe you can tell the truth behind the stories, through the looking glass of Luffy's adventures. See you in the SBS next volume!!!
D: Oda-sensei!! Hi there! I have a que... HEY, THE SBS IS OVER!!(Gabiiin!) P.N.244♪
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 43.
D: This is your daytime news. According to an 11:00 AM CP9 meeting, a Buster Call has been ordered on mangaka Eiichiro Oda's house. All residents of the area who are NOT Eiichiro Oda, please evacuate to a safe location.P.N. Zoro's Wife
O:Whaaat?! A Buster Call?! Oh my God!! But I...!! I...!! I can't just run away!! I mean, the boys and girls around the country are-!! WAITING FOR THE SBS TO START!!!
( ← Not really waiting)

D: To Oda-sensei.Robin's "Cinco Fleur". Why does "Gorin" (Five Flowers) turn into "Cinco"? Couldn't you just say "Gorin-zaki" like the kanji do? What language is Robin's attack in? I wish you would just make all her attacks in the pattern of "_nko Fleur."P.N. Heita
O:I see... So, because "Cinco" is so easy to mistake for "Chinko" (penis) you want me to just have her attack the "Chinko" instead. Now listen here, son. This is the beautiful, regal Nico Robin we're talking about here. Chinko? I mean, that's just... BRILLIANT. Didn't I mention the language sometime earlier? Oh well, it's Spanish. This is how it works.
And that's how they count. Have you ever heard any of them before?
D: Do the names ofSodomandGomorrahcome from the cities that appear in the Old Testament of the bible? In the bible they were destroyed by God. Are they being integrated into the story by being destroyed by the great "Godly" power of the World Government?by Yoiko
O:Uh... One Piece isn't that deep of a story (*laugh*). But it IS where I got the names from.

D: I want to know the name of the guy who gave Usopp the rice balls in Volume 36. He was such a nice guy (cry).P.N. Nice Old Guy
O:Ahh, yes. It was a lovely gesture, wasn't it? I was thanking him as I drew it. Well, he'sHappa-san, a kindly old bandit-turned-carpenter. He moved there fromPucci, the town of
gourmets. He's a bachelor once-divorced, so he made those rice balls by himself. Packed
inside them were the Water Seven specialty, Mizu Mizu Meat, so they must have been quite
good.

D: Blows shouldn't hurtLuffy, so why does he get bruises and swelling whenNamiand the others beat the crap out of him?! Tell me!!! P.N. Zororin Love
O:When the crew beats up on each other, it's always in admonishment with a strong sense of purpose, which is why it works so well!! It works on his spirit!! I bet Nami is thinking, "It's his spirit that hurts deep down!!" ...right? I guess not.
D: Oda-sama, we send you a letter and the feelings of all of France! I write you this message as the representative of a French fansite of over 1,000 members! We hope to show you, and especially the fans in Japan, that there are One Piece fans in other countries around the world!!!
Question: Oda-sensei, do you have a good french bread?? I am French, so I need a yummy french bread to begin the SBS!! And lastly,
"Que la volonté du D soit avec vous Mr Oda!(May the Will of D be with you!!)
O:Ahem. The SBS has finally reached international status. I appreciate that you took the trouble to send them all the way to the office in Japan. And this question, which you sent across borders and around the world... IS THE BEST YOU COULD COME UP WITH?! Plus, the answer is, I DON'T HAVE ANY FRENCH BREAD. Though I'd like to have some authentic french bread someday. So now that I've answered your question, the French edition is about 10 volumes behind, which means you'll get to read this translated in 2 years. I hope you're still fans by then! Thank you!!

D: Odacchi!! I've been spending sleepless nights wondering, whenKalifa, crown jewel of CP9 uses the Six Forms' "Tekkai", do her breasts still jiggle? Every time I get close to finding out, I get all bubbly... See, here come the bubbles again... blub blub... Bobajji! Boobabamb!! (Odacchi! You're the man!!)by Kathy Keisuke
O:And now we have a perverted question straight from Japan. What's that last part for?! You
mean *I* have to check?! So I'm just a peeping tom now.
BEY BIBBIN BIBBUH (They didn't jiggle)
D: Since the S (Set that) B (Birthday,) S (Son) Reader Corner is basically becoming a ritual now, I would like to take control of the Water Seven and CP9 Arc.
...and I assume these are fine with you? Well, keep working at it, Sensei!!by Exam Student
O:Ahhh... I see. Yeah, it does seem that way...Hmmm. There's a Secretaries' Day? Huh. Well then.Those all work for me.

D: Question!! If GodEnelwere to descend to theBlue Sea, how much would his bounty be? Also, what would happen if he did that? Would he rule the Blue Sea?P.N. Gorozoro
O:I see. Interesting question. Knowing how tricky he would be to beat, I'd imagine he could reach as much as500,000,000. Luffy was lucky to be rubber. But like Luffy said, there all sorts of even crazier guys down on the Blue Sea. Enel would NOT rule it.
D: Whatup Occhin! Nice to meet you. (At my school, we all call you Occhin.) Now, what I want to know is, whenSanjiuses the Parage shot to Parage your face, like in Volume 39Chapter 372, how pretty will it make you? Lemme know.P.N. 34590
O:Oh, awesomely pretty. As you can see from Wanze's example above, it gives you super
international movie star good looks. But there are two problems. One, Mr. Sanji don't
kick the ladies. Two, he only changes your face. If you're a fatty boombah, you're just
gonna look like a creep with a nice face.

D: Hey there! I feel like asking you a pointless question that I've been wondering about! A typical tankōbon will hold about 9 chapters, but sometimes One Piece has more like 10-11, right? Why is that? It seems like OP has been "thick" lately. And the content is hot!P.N. Jon
O:Yep. To get all technical now, a comic volume has at least 184 pages, which can usually be
reached with 9 chapters, but in my case, sometimes I put my foot down and (selfishly) say
I desire this chapter to be in yon volume! Which is why there are 10 or 11 at times.
It turns into a bit of a bonus for the readers. From my end, it's just the particulars
of how the story comes across. Once, when I had an 11-chapter book followed by a
9-chapter one, the readers complained about the content getting thinner. And now you
know why. (*laugh*)
D: Oda-sensei, I have a question! The part about the "Klabautermann" in Volume 35 Chapter 351, was that your idea? Or does it come from something in real life? Please tell us.P.N. The Secret Face Behind the Luffy Pirates
O:There are similar legends all around the world about ship fairies, but the Klabautermann legend in particular comes from German sailors. In Japan they call it "funadama" (spirit of the ship). It's easy just to think of it as the "guardian spirit of the ship". They believed that if a Klabautermann lived on the ship, you would sail safe and sound.
D: Hello. It's funny, if you hear "Kaku-kaku" you'd think ofKaku, of course. But there's an even pointier (kaku-kaku) guy out there! Volume 35, page 131, third panel on the left, what's that full-body angled guy doing there? Who is that guy? If you don't answer me, I'll pound you as flat as he is!!P.N. Prince from Somewhere
O:There he is. Well... here's your answer!! His name is...KAKUKAKU-SAN!!!
Too easy? As it happens, Kakukaku-san is very erudite (hakugaku) and loves to have long,
outspoken arguments with other people (kenken gakugaku). He's also easily frightened,
so when he gets scared, he starts trembling... "kakukaku"...!
THAT'S WHAT HE'S LIKE!! (Not good enough?)
SEE YOU IN THE SBS NEXT TIME!! (It's over?)
No SBS. Results ofCharacter Poll 3.
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 44.
D: Good morning, Oda-sensei. It is my once-in-a-lifetime request for you to let him (→) start the SBS.P.N. Omatsuri-kei
O:NO WAYYYYY!!! GEEZ!! What's the big idea, huh?! Who ARE you?! What kind of Cupid is that?! Not a love kind, I hope!! Go home!! I wanna start the SBS by myself!
D: Hello, Oda-sensei!! Poor Oda-sensei, who always get beaten to the punch by all kinds of people who want to say the SBS before him! I'm sorry. I'M ONE OF THEM. (Donnn) So let's decide who gets to go withJanken! Nice and fair! Are you ready?! First comes rock... Jan-ken-pon!! ...oh no, I lost! Oh well! START THE SBS!!!P.N. Hanayu
O:YOU SAID IT!!! WAIT A MINUTE!!!
You can't do that!! That doesn't make any sense!! God!! NOW I'm annoyed!!
There's going to be EXTRA SBS this time, just because of this!!
D: Oda-sensei, good morning!! I have a question!! CP9's clothes sure stretch a lot. How many Gomu Gomus can they stretch?P.N. Ashi
O:They sure do. Man, isn't that funny?!
What do you think, like 50 Gomu Gomus or so?!
D: YOU ARE ANOKAMA, RIGHT?From Anonymous
O:NO WAY, HONEY!!!
D: Oda-sensei, I have a question. In Volume 42,Chapter 405"Power", whenFrankyuses his "seek-and-destroy cannon" it says "BF36" on his shoulders. That stands for Battle Franky 36, right?! Well?!P.N. Soge Q
O:Yes...!! That's right. As you will know from reading Franky's flashback, Franky created his own line of 35 battleships called Battle Franky. After his ships were used to hurt someone he loved, and he used that same sense of technological wizardry to fix his own body, he carved the symbol BF-36 into himself and put an end to his career of shipbuilding. After that, he became a dismantler.
D: I've been kind of wondering for a while, what wasKumadori's mom like?from Yasuhiko
O:Actually, she's still alive. Profession, assassin. Name:Kumadori Yamanbako
(Note: "Yamanba" means mountain hag, and also refers to a particularly extreme subgenre of the "ganguro" girl subculture.)
D: Ohh...!! Hewwo?!! Ithith Oda-sensei? Uuuuhhh...!! Uh, what?! I ferrgot!! Urrrp!!from Shoma
O:YA DRUNK!!! Get this 11-year-old outta my face!!
D: Sensei, I can't help but wonder what the eight members ofCP9looked like when they were kids, especially Lucci-san. Please draw them for me, if you would. Thank you.P.N. The Sea is Wide and Large
O: Okay.
Top: Lucci, Kaku, Jabra, Kalifa. Bottom: Fukurou, Blueno, Kumadori, Spandam.
T.N.: Lucci's Shirt: Peace
D: Hello, Odacchi. I just recently noticed something. When readingZoroandKaku's fight in Volume 43, there is a pattern to his attack names.
Nigiri → Nigiri sushi (hand-rolled sushi)
Toro → Toro (tuna)
Otoro → Otoro (fatty tuna)
Hirameki → Hirame (flounder)
Samon → Salmon
He seems really fixated on sushi... Could Zoro-san have never had sushi before?!P.N. Susshy
O:Who-ho-hoa, now, whoa... I think someone just accused you of some totally bogus crimes,
Zoro-san! I think ANYONE would be upset at being the author of such a shocking display
of puns in poor taste! Come on out and tell 'em it ain't so, Zoro!!
Zoro:Gimme a break... Listen up, P.N. Susshy. It... It ain't... so...
O:WHAT ARE YOU ACTING SO SHOOK UP FOR?!!
D: To Oda-sensei. Does Santa really exist?P.N. Kinoko
O:HE DOES!! YOU BET HE DOES!!
I always stay awake so I can catch a glimpse of him, but I always fall asleep right
before he comes! It's so frustrating!!
D: Oda-sensei!! I have a serious question. Will you ever draw Luffy's parents?P.N. Mr. Uni, Age 16
O:His parents? Well, I think you will be pleased with the next volume. Get excited!
D:
P.N. Yoshio
O:NO WAAAAY!!! It's you...!! Youuuu!! You came once before, in Volume 41. Didn't I say no already?! Why did you come again?! Leave me alone!! You're not getting in there!!
(T.N.: I really can't join the Royal Shichibukai? FromSBS Volume 41, page 26)
D: Odacchi, nice to meet you!! I finally sent you a postcard. It's a serious question, so give me a real answer. That trick thatSanjiused to beatJabra!! If it was that hot to Jabra, wouldn't it burn Sanji, too?!! Wouldn't Sanji be like, "yeow"?? Tell me!P.N. Oda Gayichiro
O:What are you talking about...
WHAT ARE YOU TALKING ABOUT?!! Are those eyes, or holes in your head?!! What were you watching in that fight?!! His LEG is hot?! No, it's not hot!! SANJI'S HEART WAS BURNING SO MUCH HOTTER!!!
D: Sending my condolences with this card.from Naoko-chan
O:O... oh. No no, MY condolences. (Does she mean "well-wishes"?)
D: PASS ME THAT PONZU!!By What the Hell!!!
O:Okay. Here.
(Note: Ponzu is a type of Japanese sauce made with citrus fruits.)
D:Namiwas rippingKalifa's clothes off after she beat her, to look for her key. So where was it hidden, after all that?P.N. Udonko
O:W... Where was it hidden...?! I couldn't say such a shameful thing (blush)! I mean, it was THERE, of all places!! Oh, Kalifa!
D: Umm, I have a little question about Franky-san. He was adopted at age 10, began building the sea train at age 12, finished the Express 10 years later, and 4 years after that met with the accident from "8 years ago," which would mean... HE'S 34 YEARS OLD!! Can someone really be so nutty at that age? Before doing the calculations, I assumed he was 18 or something...P.N. Young Iceburg is so cool!!
O:Yes. So you calculated his present age. That's right, Franky is 34. Isn't that what makes him cool?! I mean, that basically means he's just a total freak and pervo.
D: Oda-sensei. We need to talk!! I want... wait, first, put some clothes on! Pants on too? Good! Now let's get to business. HAND ME THAT PORNO MAG THERE.from Chanman
O:No way! This is reference material! For my manga!!
D: Hello, ODA-sensei. Your body is fine? My name is Kimeunhyang. Lately, Volume 41 has been published even in Korea. This is a sudden question, what is "this" thing between the waist and legs of the ONE PIECE logo? A skirt? Is it really a skirt? I want to know so badly, I can't sleep.
O:Thank you. This was a question from Korea. I think if I draw it out, you'll understand. Is the "hand" part what threw you off?

D: Hey! Odacchi!! I conducted an investigation during my very busy summer vacation. You know how you use "Don!" or "Donnn!!" a lot, as a sound effect? So I counted the number of times "Don" was used in One Piece, through Volume 42,Chapter 409! (Only counting Don, Donnn, Dodon, Dodonnn. Excluded sounds which I suspected to be gunshots or attack sounds) My unofficial count found a grand total of1,469 DONS!(Donnn!!) On average, that makes about 3.5 Dons in every chapter. Did you know that?? Is there any other mangaka which uses "Don" so often? Come on guys, let's give him a round of applause! Clap clap clap... wow. Yes! Now that you're in a good mood, let's END THE SBS!!! (DODONNN)P.N. SYAM no M
O:Waaaaait! Let me say something first! HOW MUCH FREE TIME DO YOU HAVE?! (LOL) No really, thanks a lot. I guess that's just how many scenes I felt confident in! See you next volume!
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 45.
D: Oda-sensei! You haven't been able to give the title call recently, but as Polar Bear, head of the "Let Him Say the Title Call Squad", I say you have nothing to fear!! Now, go ahead and say it, while you imitate a gorilla-ish Inoki eating a banana!by Polar Bear
O:Ook! Ook-ook! Hi there ook! Mush mush everyone oohook! How are youuu?!! Ook ook chomp chomp here we go ook ook! Oooone ook ook! Twooooo ook ook mush mush! Threee ookookook! Start theheehoohoo! SB mush mush chomp chomp! Ook ook! Chomp chomp mush mush hook hook! E-ookook... Es... Munsh munsh—ESCUSE ME!!! LET ME DO IT NORMALLY OOK OOK!! ..........okay. Next question.
(Note: "Inoki" is the legendary Japanese fighterAntonio Inoki.)

D: Is it true that you shoot out a "Coup de Boo" when you eat potatoes?by Modai
O:OH YES. I DO. Man, let me tell you. I accidentally ate a potato last time, and one single "Coup de Boo" sent me flying to New York. It was Coup de Booman in New York. Of course, I was able to get a potato to send me back home safely.
D: Odacchi!! Out of the Six Forms, I want "Tekkai" most of all, but just how hard does it make you? I mean, some places it's REALLY important to be HARD, you know what I mean?!P.N. Majin Moomin
O:WHAT EXACTLY DO YOU PEOPLE WANT FROM THIS SECTION?
D: Clang!! Clangclangclangclangclang!! Claclang!! Odaaa-senseiii... Yoyoi! I have a-uh questionnn. Does-uhKumadori's-uhname-uh come-uh from theee kabuki facepaint knownnn aasssss "kumadori"? Yoyoyoi yoi, answer me this question please!from Sho-kun
O:That's right. That's exactly what it came from.

Ryo-san from Kochikame (center)
D: Odaaachi!! I have a question, SIR! Wait! Wait! Wait! On Volume 44, p. 148, the fifth panel, c-c-c-c-c-could that be?!!!! Ryotsu from "Kochira Katsushika-ku Kameari Koen-mae Hashutsujo"?! Ryotsu, Ryotsu! It is! Why? But why? Why there? Is it a relative? Or what? He was transferred to the army from the police? What's the story? If you don't answer me, this is sexual harassment!by The Tacchi's Boss
O:Yes. I got a whole mountain of letters about this. You are right, it is indeed Ryo-san from the ultra famous"Kochikame"! Last year, Kochikame forged the incredible streak of over 30 years in publication!! So in one issue, Jump ran a little contest in which Ryo-san appeared in all the stories in the magazine, and readers had to find him. I think the
only reason they could get all the Jump authors in on such a feat is because of the immense respect and popularityAkimoto-senseicommands. Congratulations on 30 incredible years!!
D:
O:C'mon guys, KNOCK IT OFF!!! Didn't I say no enough?! NO!!! And what does the postcard in the top right have to do with anything?! Who cares?! It's A!! DUH!!

D: If Lady Robin can use herHana HanaPowers to make any part of her body sprout somewhere else, does that mean she can do it with her ample bosom as well? "Nyurin-zaki" (Breast Sprout) Boy, I'd like to take a hit from that sometime...P.N. Ero Ero no Mi Devil Fruit User.
O:"Ichirin-zaki" (Single Sprout) "Nirin-zaki" (Double Sprout) "Nyurin-zaki" (Breast Sprout) Very clever!! NO IT'S NOT!! STOP THAT!! I'm sure she CAN do it though ♡
D: IfKokoro-sanis a mermaid, why is her granddaughterChimneya normal human? Don't mermaids pass on genetic information?from Petit Panda
O:Kokoro-san came here fromFish-Man Islandout of her respect for Tom-san, when she was a young mermaid. She married a young human man fromWater 7, their half-merman son married another human, and THEIR daughter was Chimney. Chimney is therefore 1/4 mermaid, so she's a very good swimmer. It was only her mermaid blood that helped such a little kid save Luffy inChapter 403, Volume 42, as he drowned.

D: InChapter 422, it said thatRob Luccikilled 500 hostages and took the captain's head. Why did he have to kill the 500 hostages?by Wiper is the Coolest!!
O:I know, why? It's terrible. Why couldn't he just kill the bad guys? However, I had to shorten some things to make the pace move quicker. Lucci is a man who believes that "weakness is a sin". Therefore, if these soldiers were weak enough to be captured and expose the country to danger, they could do the same thing again in the future. So he arrived at the answer that these weak soldiers did not have the right to live, and took action accordingly. It's a hair-raising philosophy. Thanks for beating him, Luffy!!
D: Please us tell us his name. My husband and I keep calling him "Round Guy." For now.P.N. Patty
O:Ummm... Tama...Tamagon. (Just made that up)

D: Do allDevil Fruithave that swirly pattern on them?
O:That's right. It's what distinguishes them from other fruit. Sometimes I wonder if Sanji himself is a Devil Fruit.
D: In theVolume 4 SBS, you said that you read every single fanletter and postcard. Do you still do that, even now?by Koji
O:Yes, of course I do. However, to be honest, there was a time when I couldn't read them all. At that point, I was easily getting one to two thousand letters or postcards a week. At the time, I had to select a few hundred out of all of those, but lately the volume of mail has come down to a manageable level (the letters from girls have really dropped off since I got married *laugh*). So now I am once again reading all 100% of them. Looking at it now, I've been getting these letters of support week after week for 10 years, which is truly a wonderful thing. Thank you. I am truly kept afloat by my readers. There's a room in our office where we store the mail, and my staff is getting worried that the floor is going to give out in there.
D: Sorry this is so sudden, Oda-sensei. Luffy's favorite food is meat. What about everyone else on the crew? And you yourself, Oda-sensei???? Chapapapapaa!P.N. I Like Cup Ramen!!!
O:These are their favorites!!

D: Hey, Odacchi! I got a question! About Devil Fruits!! IfKakuandKalifasaid they wouldn't know what their Devil Fruit were until they ate it, how come Shanks knew what Luffy'sGomu Gomu no Miwas before he ate it?? Tell me! Tell me now!! Pleeeease tell me!!!P.N. Shirogitsunekko
O:Well, I think I'll eventually get to explaining more about Devil Fruits in the main story, but you see, there's a book of Devil Fruits. It has info about all kinds of fruit names and abilities, but few of the fruit can actually be identified by their shape. In the case of the Gomu Gomu no Mi, there was a picture and everything, but for Kaku and Kalifa, they were talking about how they wouldn't know until they had finally eaten the fruit. That was in Volume 40.
The Volume 45 SBS is over!! Until next time!!
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
SBS Special! Complete blueprint! THOUSAND SUNNY ship!!
This is the volume extras fromVolume 46.
Oda:Hello! This time for the author's corner, I answered a question that has been asked many times "What does the Sunny looks like on the inside?!"
Here is my thorough answer!! In a total of 18 pages!! Enjoy!
(For more info seeThousand Sunny - Ship Design and Appearance).
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 47.
D: When reading the SBS, please make sure the room is well-lit and that you are not too close to the page. When finished reading, please close your eyes and move them up, down, left and right to give them some exercise. (You too, Oda-sensei)by Tada-san
O:Aaack!! It's the usual "takeover squad"! Wait... huh? No... Oh! Now that I read closer... Such kind words. I'm sorry, I thought I was being screwed over once again! Thank you for thinking of everyone's health and well-being, Tada-san! There's plenty this volume to make up for last time, so here we go!! ST-START!! THE S-B-S...!! ( ← stuttered)
D: What should one do ifEnelshot down lightning bolts?by Pacchon
O:First, guard yourself by ducking at light speed, then give him that golden right with a bit of rotation!! If you can't hit him, cover your bellybutton, cry and surrender!! He's tough, folks!!
D: Question for Oda-sensei! Tell us the ages of the members of CP9. Please, Shigan! (I'm sorry! Don't dodge, Sensei!)P.N. No. 1
O:Yow! ... whew, that was close. Good thing I dodged, wahaha!! You can't touch this!!
D: I have a question, Oda-sensei. What would happen if you picked your nose with Shigan? Please test out this query.by Prince
O:Okay. AAAAAAGGGGHHH!!!
D: I always love reading One Piece, Oda-sensei. By the way, about those 200 Marine HQ captains and commanders that fought the Straw Hats in Volume 44. One of them had a Devil Fruit ability that made him become like a bunch of balls, remember? What's the name of that fruit, and what is the ability, exactly? It showed up in the anime, but I didn't hear what it was. Also, I would like you to explain the "Sabi Sabi no Mi" that showed up in the same scene.P.N. Mugi-mugi
O:Okay. Well, these abilities were all described in the fanbook called "One Piece Yellow", but for those of you who don't have it, I'll explain! There were three Devil Fruit users revealed in that battle scene.
(Note: Beri stands for "berry", sabi means "to rust", and sharin means "wheel".)
D: What are those THINGS onKokoro-san's chest, shells? Or an evolved form of scale? A NuBra?Pen Name: I Love Grandma
O:Hmmm... ummmm... Oh!! I'm sorry, I was groaning without realizing it. This is quite a question. I suppose I can't just answer "I don't want to think about it"? All right, here's your answer. It's KIND of like a "NuBra". And you'd better believe that suction is bearing the fate of world peace! Hang in there, shell "NuBra"!!
D: To Oda-sensei. By the way, yeah. My question is, why doesChoppersay, "I'm not interested in naked women", inChapter 446(Volume 46)?! Your approximate age is 15, Chopper! Please ask him that for me, please.(18, Female)
O:I see. Well, you might want to read it closer. He says, "I'm not interested in naked HUMAN women". He can speak human words, but he's still a reindeer! Which means, he can fall in love with a human because of his mind, but he won't be aroused by her looks. He just might be smitten with a really beautiful reindeer, though.
D: Hello, Oda-sensei!! I am TOTALLY in love with the new manly looks of Koby and Helmeppo in Volume 45!!!! They are so hot! Tell me their birthdays! How about May 13 forKoby(Ko = Go = 5, B looks like 13) and July 16 forHelmeppo(Nana-hikari musuko, aka "idiot son", Nana = 7 and hi+mu being 16)?by Kukri
O:Well... You answered your own question. Works for me.
D: Hello, Oda-sensei! ♡ (murmur murmur (outdoor sounds)) By the way, how do you respond to the charges that the Oda Clinic performed a full plastic surgery on Koby?! (hands two mics over) We'd like to get a comment from Koby, as well.P.N. Mayuko Wakayama of the OP-Loving Saitama Citizens Group
O:He's hit his growth spurt! Haven't you ever seen a boy who comes back from summer vacation looking like a different person?! Boys grow in an instant, you know! He just tightened his muscles up a bit with some good discipline. Right, Koby?
Koby:RIGHT!
D: Okay, so inChapter 412, Volume 43,NamiripsKalifa's clothes in search of the key! And like, right in front ofFranky! That's sexual harassment!! Who's going to want to marry her now?! Oda-sensei!! CAN I HAVE KALIFA?!(P.N. I Would Die With Happiness If I Had a Secretary Like That)
O:Ready, set... WHO SAYS YOU GET HER?!
D: Is it true that you're half-made of naughty?P.N. Travel-loving Sights
O:Yep, that's right. I guess the other half would be stupidness. It's funny, there's really no worth to me being alive, but I'm pretty sure that if aliens invaded Earth and wiped out humanity, I would still be alive and well.
D: Oda-sensei!! My brother says that the order of the manga in Jump is decided by popularity. Is that true?(by Yasumo)
O:That's a fitting suspicion for a Jump reader. Since I get these fairly often, allow me to answer. To be precise, not quite. The order is decided every week by the Jump sub-chief editor. But it's true that the most popular series are placed in the front of the magazine. Also, sometimes he decides, we're pushing THIS one this week! I guess you could say it's the "order you could enjoy the magazine in". But of course, the only TRULY correct answer is to read it in the order YOU want.
D: IsKalifa'sAwa Awa no Mireally Paramecia, and not Logia type?P.N. Fruit Punch Samurai
O:Kalifa creates bubbles with her body and still retains her normal body, so she's Paramecia. Rub her, and the bubbles come. Handy, isn't it?
D: My question is about the rich-looking young lady with the binoculars in Chapters436-437from Volume 45! What exactly is she looking at?! I knowFranky's a pervert, but I think SHE must be, too. I would like to know what she looks like, and what her name is. Good luck with your work!☆☆ P.N. Gengerous Zone
O:I see... You found her. Then allow me to introduce the ladyMarumieta("I can see all"). Her manservant beside her isYamenahare("Now you stop that"). She is the only daughter ofBimine, the mayor of the "Gourmet Town",Pucci, which is connected to Water Seven via the Sea Express. This young woman is most ignorant of the ways of the world, and therefore quite the curious one! Having heard of the damage from the Aqua Laguna, she came here to deliver emergency supplies, and found herself witnessing the most extraordinary event!!
D: I've always wondered... IsRobinsupposed to be based on ME?P.N. Nico Aya-chan
O:...Uh, yeah.
D: Wait a second!! Oda-sensei!! You know that scene in Volume 45, where Robin squeezes Franky in a very important place? CAN SHE FEEL WHAT SHE'S SQUEEZING? You simply MUST tell me!!
O:Yes, she can. All the arms and legs she sprouts are part of her body. She feels the things she touches, and when she's hurt, that damage is done to her own body. So you see... She really DID grab his balls!! Girls, NEVER DO THIS. They're very tender!!
D: What would Franky'sJolly Rogerbe?by Sen-chan
O:Well, let's see. Since every crew member seems to need their own jolly roger, how about this?

D: Question for you!! Is the swordsman "Ryuma" who was once said to have defeated a dragon the very sameRyumathat starred in the short story "Monsters" from your collection volume entitled "Wanted!"? He is, isn't he? I'm so desperate to know, I can't brush my teeth. If I get a cavity, I'll tell the dentist it was your fault.P.N. Satoru-pyon
D: Greetings!! I cracked open "Wanted!" for the first time in ages and re-read "Romance Dawn", which prompted me to notice that Luffy's grandpa in that story was basically the same guy as Vice AdmiralGarp! Does that mean that Garp was once the captain of a crew of pirates?P.N. Nao
O:Well, here are two questions about my old short story collection, "Wanted!" I'll tackle Ryuma's first. The zombie Ryuma appears inChapter 450from this volume, and he is indeed the Ryuma who starred in "Monsters". In the world of One Piece, he's now a legendary swordsman who died of sickness. I wouldn't have minded if this had just slipped through the cracks, but I was happy to see that so many people noticed. Next, Garp. He appeared as Luffy's grandpa, and a pirate no less, in the one-shot that served as the basis for One Piece. He might look the same, but I want you to see these as different stories. Grandpa Garp from THIS One Piece is a true blue Marine, from birth till death!!
D: Oda-sensei! I've always wondered, aren't theMarinesalutes kind of backward? I thought you saluted with the SIDE of your hand against the forehead! Explain please!P.N. Like That
O:Oh, right. After all this time, I can't remember ever answering this one. Yes, it is a bit different than what you'd expect, but there's a reason. Sailors have pull all sorts of ropes on a sailboat to make sure it can sail, and the tar on the ropes makes their hands filthy and black. It would be rude to show those blackened hands to a superior officer, so they salute showing the back of the hand. It's the kind of courtesy you'd expect from the Marines.

D: Hello, Oda-sensei. I know you're busy watchingIitomo, but I hope you'll answer my question. What does it mean when people mention directions like 9 o'clock or 12 o'clock in your manga?P.N. **-kun Behind You
O:Well, just imagine a clock with you in the middle. 12 o'clock is right in front of you, 6 o'clock is right behind you. You just think of the ship the same way. There's no east west north south, you just use the directions you see.
(Note: Waratte Iitomo! (It's Okay to Laugh!) is a Japanese variety show)
D: Hello, Odacchi. OP started when I was in 1st grade, and has now reached its 10th anniversary. I've decided that I should step in and let you know how many panels you've drawn in 45 volumes! After a two-month investigation, I've found the result is40,971panels!! Round of applause! *silence* ...W-well, keep reaching for 100,000. I'll check in again when you hit 500 chapters. Bye-bye baby, shap babaloobap badap bam boom bang crash thud!P.N. Mr. 9's First Apprentice, Tatsuya
O:You really counted them~. So, I've drawn 40,000 panels. Hmmm. It doesn't hit home. But I appreciate your effort! Thanks a lot!! See you next volume!!
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 48.
D: Ding dong. Delivery! I've come with those porno magazines you ordered. But I'm not giving them to you unless you let me start the SBS. What? You just want your porno?! So I can start the SBS, then?! Here goes!!! "START THE SBS!!!" ...And enjoy your porn!P.N. Tani-san
O:You know, folks, when it comes to me, there's only one thing more important than three meals a day, one thing more important than the SBS, and that's PORNO MAGS. This one's pretty good, too. Wow, that is one HOT curve. And look at those BAZONGAS!! I mean, they're just busting out of the- HOW DAMN HORNY AM I SUPPOSED TO BE, ANYWAY?! Stop making me look bad!!
D: Hello, Odacchi! I have a question; will you hear me out? ...Oh, you will? Thanks! Here goes. In the song the Straw Hats sing called "Family", they have a line that goes "We're not acquaintances, we're not friends, we're family". If the Straw Hats really were an actual family, who would be the dad, and who would be the mom?P.N. Nashi
O:"Family" has been aired on TV, and it seems to be the most popular out of all the character songs. I really love it, too. My answer would currently be something like this.
D: Tell usFire Fist Ace's height and weight! Personally I think January 1 would be great for his birthday! What do you say?!BY. AI ❤
O:Yeah, since an ace is worth one in cards. That works. He'd be about 185 cm tall.
D: Question for Oda-sensei, chapa! Is CaptainT Bonea General Zombie? Or is he just another boney man like our friendBrook?P.N. Chapapa Village Resident
O:Ooh, good question. Well, if you want to solve this by a process of elimination, he's not a Wild (animal) Zombie, and he's not a Surprise Zombie. Soldier Zombies are those without weapons, but since Captain T Bone is armed, that would mean that, as you say, he is a General Zombie. (NOTE: ACTUALLY A HUMAN.)
D: Horohorohoro... "NEGATIVE HOLLOW"!! Swiiishh... You're a little too bummed, Oda-san!! What would you like to be when you're reborn?P.N. Koby's classmate
O:...I can't... I just can't do it. I don't have the will to go on. Time to die... But... If I had the chance to be reborn... I'd be... well... a stain. A stain on a rug. A very... persistent stain.
D: Oda-sensei, I realize you're very busy, but I do have a question. Nami's shorts changed between Chapters445and446, in Volume 46... What happened? Thriller Bark is such a mysterious place, after all.P.N. Makigon
O:...I can't do this... I'm sorry... I suck sooo much... Time to die. But... That might have been a pair of shorts made from an easily-bleachable fabric... No, no, that would just be making up excuses. If I'm reborn, I'd want to be drool... A very... dribbly drool.
D: Odacchi. I love your manga. I have a question. What happens if Chopper eats four Rumble Balls? I've always wondered about that. Draw a picture, please.Nickname: Hama-chan
O:Very good, sir. →
When he eats three, his Devil Fruit Powers go wild, but if he eats FOUR Rumble Balls, the author goes wild.
(Chopper: It's on me, I insist (catchphrase))
D: Hello, Oda-sensei!! This is the first time I've ever sent you a letter! On p. 161 of Volume 46, the chapter titled "Moria", there is a zombie with the number 767. And yet, on p. 173 of the chapter titled "The Mysterious Four of Thriller Bark", the zombie in Hogback's lab says 741. Why is that? Did you... MAKE A MISTAKE?! Give me a serious answer!!P.N. Snowdrop from the Drum Kingdom
O:You really pay attention to detail! So what you're asking is, why is the zombie just being created given a lower number? As a matter of fact, it makes perfect sense. This is because zombies get purified all the time, leaving empty numbers behind. Since zombies are constantly being lost when their shadow owners die, intruders purify them with salt, or Moria simply uses them like disposable pawns, the newer zombies must be created to fill those holes in the numbering order. So it is quite often that zombies with lower numbers are created. You also might be interested, though it's of no real consequence, to learn these specific number ranges.
The zombie army is maintained by filling in the empty ranks according to this chart.
O:It's game time! Answer's at the bottom, so no peeking!!
Thank you, P.N. Nyaokichi-san!! Now find the two keys!!
Look for the secret keys! The clues are these three photos. Also, it looks like the weapon storeroom key from Dr. Kureha's castle is here, too!! Can you tell which one it is?!
Nami: Where should I hide these once you've found them?
Answers:-~[[BR]] ~-Secret Key → D-4
Storeroom Key → C-8
D: Sensei! WhenAbsalomsays "Being mean toKumashimust fill you with ecstasy. Ecsmacy?" and "So cruel toHogback. Cruelback." Is that just because he likes bad jokes?
O:YES. EVEN HIS SENSE OF HUMOR IS INVISIBLE!!
D: Hello, Odacchi. I'm a high school senior re-reading Volume 47. About Ab-sama's wild and cute mouthy mouth, did that belong to the lionNamisaw from the carriage in Volume 46?! Did they switch faces?! Like plastic surgery?! I guess that chin of his must have had some mental complex that kept him from getting married! Let me hear the truth from YOUR mouth, now.P.N. Failing Exam Student
O:I see, so you noticed that... I'm afraid I will keep my mouth shut, however. Yes, it is true that that lion's muzzle was transplanted to Absalom's face by Hogback. However, there's no proof that the human mouth the lion has originally came from Absalom. There might be a different zombie with the same scars. I'm keeping my mouth shut, for the few Absalom fans out there.
D: Greetings, Odacchi-sama. In one of the volumes (I forget which one), the topic of voice actors came up, and you said you'd make a list. So make that list already!!P.N. Voice
O:Yes. Voice-kun here wants to be an actor. I remember my promise. I said that I'd introduce the voice actors to you. However, in the various OP-related publications that are out, we HAVE done just that. I thought it might be redundant to do it again here, but I have a good idea! How about a special SBS-only Let's Ask the Voice Actors section?! I don't have their permission, of course. But I think it might work out! If not, I'll answer for them. First entry is the Straw Hat Pirates' actors. Write up your message or questions and address them to the person you want to ask, then send it to the SBS Usopp Gallery address listed in this book. They're good, funny people, so you can ask anything.
D:Mr. 4's gun "Lassoo" had the "Inu Inu no Mi, Model: Dachshund". CP9'sJabrahad the "Inu Inu no Mi, Model: Wolf". So the Devil Fruits don't have the same type twice, but they CAN have different models?P.N. Hito Hito no Mi, Model Beautiful Girl ❤
O:In the case of Zoan-types, a different "model" is basically a different fruit. Just like those Inu Inu no Mi examples, there's also theUshi Ushi no Mi, Model: Bison(Dalton) andModel Giraffe(Kaku). Just think of them as entirely different fruits.
D: Excuse me!! May I pose a serious question to the typically-vulgar SBS?? In Volume 46, Usopp said that the same power doesn't exist twice. But this doesn't make sense with what you said in theVolume 45 SBS... If theGomu Gomu no Miwas in a book of fruits, then Luffy HAD to have eaten at least the SECOND known example of the fruit! Now, most beautiful and intelligent Ei-chan, explain it all! ✩P.N. Takafi
O:Very sharp of you. But I'm cool. I haven't made any mistakes. As a hint, let me rephrase what Usopp is saying. "The same powers don't exist twice AT THE SAME TIME". How's that? For more detail, you'll just have to wait for a certain professor to make his appearance in the story, and explain exactly what the Devil Fruits REALLY are... Eventually.
D: Oda-sensei, greetings!! I've made a sudden discovery! When you take off the dust cover of Volume 46, the person popping out of the snake looks an awful lot like the sketch of the "Unforgivable Mask" character fromColor Walk 2! Just who is he, anyway? Tell me!!by Hiromu
O:Whoa!! You've gone too far! You're in danger!! They'll come for your life!! Okay, look, this is all I'm gonna say. He'sPandaman's rival!! He's been hired byTomato Gang!! Later!! See you next volume!!
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 49.
O:Hello!! How are you all doing?!! Hi, I'm the author. And I'm first, this time! No one's taking over my corner THIS time!! Now, I'd like to get the questions started! So! Let the SBS!! Begim.....!! I screwed that up... It's "n"... It ends with N! Oh, man, I'm a wreck. If I get reborn, I'd wanna be... the wall of a girl's bath... ( ← very optimistic)
D: I believe that withUsopp's straight man powers and my humorous antics, we could aim for the very pinnacle of two-man comedy. Please let me form a combo with Usopp.P.N. Sensei can think of our combo name
O:Okay! Go be stars in the comedy world! Your combo name is... "Deserting Under Enemy Fire".
D: My entire family is a huuuuge fan of One Piece, and we all follow it faithfully. Now, my question is this: in Volume 48,Chapter 460,Robincalled Nami "Nami-chan". But before she had always called her "Navigator"!! Has Robin had a change of heart?! Please tell me. By the way, my mom's morning hair looks JUST likeBrook's!!P.N. Bear in the Forest
O:Your mom looks like Brook... THAT'S AMAZING!! Gotta love the funk. Now, about Robin. I've noticed that a lot of readers picked up on this, which makes me very happy. InChapter 475of this volume, Robin says "Are you all right, Nami?!" It appears she'll be calling her "Nami" from now on. She also started referring to the other members by name. Perhaps this is a consequence of Robin truly opening her heart to her friends and crewmates after the events ofEnies Lobby. Despite the huge size of this story, I still hope to depict the little, human things, like this.
D: Oda-sensei! What wouldKalifalook like if she had eaten theUshi Ushi no Mi, Model: Giraffeinstead, at the Judiciary Tower?P.N. Shiranchon
O:Over on the right. It's not too bad, if I say so myself.
D: This is my first letter (okay, postcard)! Here's my question. InHogback's flashback scene inChapter 468, is that stuffed animalPerona's holding actuallyKumashi?!! If so, how did he get to be so freakin' huge??P.N. Tonton
D: I have a question about Thriller Bark's super-super cute Perona! In the cover page serial that ran around the Skypiea arc, entitled "Wapol's Omnivorous Hurrah", he used hisBaku Baku no Miability to create a toy called "KABASHINSHI" (Hippo Gentleman). Does this have anything to do with theHippo Gentlemanthat answers to Perona? Is Perona a fan of Wapol's toys?P.N. Mizuki
O:I've got two questions here. Very well spotted, in both cases. First, the Kumashi plushie. He did not grow up to be that size. Perona simply likes having Hogback create zombies based on her plushies. She gotWapol's "KABASHINSHI" somewhere along the way, so it's quite likely that she had Hogback create his own version for her.
D: Odacchi!!! This is a man from the future!!! I give up!!by Amisho ☆
O:...Hmmm... He's all, "I'm gonna do it". But do what? A futureman... does it...DOES WHAT?!! (GRR!!) 
...Sorry, I got mad. That was childish of me. Next postcard.
D: I'VE STARTED A VERY DISCERNING SOBA SHOP.By Kimuchi-maru
O:GET OUTTA HERE!!! (GRR!!) ...Huff... huff... Sorry, that was childish of me.

D: Oda-sensei, here's a very serious question. IfShankswas a deck hand onGold Roger's ship, does that mean the guy who hit him andBuggywhen they were fighting in Volume 3 was the captain of the ship? Or maybe an officer?by Sonoe-san
O:Ah yes, the story of Buggy and Shanks in their swabby days. That would mean the captain of their ship was none other than the Pirate King, Gold Roger. The man who scolded the two boys was thefirst mate. I've had that set in stone since the very start, so I even made sure the anime staff knew that.
D: Oda-sensei, hello!! Here's my question.Oarsmight be very big, but is he a giant?? If he IS a giant, does that mean he's fromElbaph? Explain the background, here!P.N. Nara Nara
O:You know how there's always one REALLY BIG guy in your class? Oars is a giant, but he's even huger than normal, among them. He's not a warrior of Elbaph. There are multiple islands around the world with giants living on them. He's just a big huge, evil giant from one of those islands. That's Oars!
D: Wouldn't Franky be cold dressed the way he is, in Chopper's movie (Blooming in Winter, the Miraculous Sakura)?P.N. Freezing Water Swimming Club Tani
O:Hmm. You thought that, based on the images in the movie? I was wondering about this when I heard the anime staff's setting plan. It does seem cold, but do you use that as a chance for humor, or let it slide? After mulling it over, I had my answer. It doesn't matter if he's cold or not; he's FRANKY!! It's how WEIRD he is that's important!! So here's my answer: "Yes, that outfit's chilly." * Even cyborgs get cold.
D: Question! "WhitebeardEdward Newgate", "BlackbeardMarshall D. Teach", "4th Squad CommanderThatch". These three all appear to be based off the real-life 18th century Caribbean pirate,Edward Teach(or sometimes Edward Thatch), aka "Blackbeard". Can you tell us more about this figure?P.N. G-on King
O:All three, yes. As a matter of fact, Whitebeard and Thatch just take his name, but Blackbeard himself is completely modeled after the man. The real-life pirate called Blackbeard had many names, and one of them was "Thatch". He also went by "Drummond" and "Thache". He would braid his very long black beard and light smoking wicks hanging from his hat, and with the six pistols and three swords he bore, must have been the very figure of the Devil in battle. Countless stories exist of him shooting his own crew to teach them a lesson, and so on. There are legends that he hid a great treasure, but it has never been found. Now's your chance!
D: I've made a great discovery!! Despite being in a test... I managed to reread One Piece Volumes 1-48!! And my discovery was... In "The Highest Authority in the World",Chapter 233of Volume 25, Buggy and his crew are searching for Captain John's treasure in a cave. And then in "Perona's Wonder Garden",Chapter 451of Volume 47, there'sCaptain Johnagain! Is this a super-huge discovery, or what?! Who IS Captain John? Just how cruel was he? Tell us, Ei-chaan!!P.S. Tosa Danji
O:Yes, you've found it. Well spotted. The man whose treasure Buggy and crew were searching for had become a zombie at Thriller Bark. Look close at Captain John's stomach. He has several slashes in his belly, and two swords sticking right out. These were the marks left when his crew killed him for keeping the treasure a secret from them. John died, and the location of the treasure became a legend, lost forever.
D: Please don't worry about me. Do go on.P.N. 15
O: Okay.
D: InChapter 462, "Oars' Adventure", Brook andRyumahad a duel. That form was very much like fencing! I could certainly tell, because I took fencing when I was in high school. And, reading further, the words coup droit, bond avant, remise... these are all fencing terms! I love fencing, so this was really great to see! So Brook is a fencer, then! That slender form is simply perfect for the style! (I die if I can't wear a mask!!)P.N. G-chan
O:That's right, he's a fencer!! (So that's what you call it...) He's a fencer, folks!! You heard it here, people... Brook is a fencer!! And thus, the SBS has fensed!! I mean, ended! See you next volume!!
D: Oda-T, good mornoon!! Sensei! I have a proposal for you. You know the little art that always appears at the top of the SBS Corner? I've noticed that the characters seem to be catching up to the main story! Might that not be causing trouble for you?! That might just be my personal opinion... But I was thinking, why not have a special part of the Usopp Gallery Pirates for SBS title art submissions, with the grand prize winner being used in the corner itself?P.N. Let's Make the Volumes Better Chairman, Isamu Nidoin
O:I see. SURE! Actually, many people have sent illustrations in for this very purpose, but the sizes weren't quite right. However, if you want to do them right, that saves me some time, so SURE! I'll accept them now. I hope you pick out old characters we can look back on fondly. Otherwise, well, just knock yourselves out. On the other hand, when I WANT to draw it, I'll still draw it.
Regarding the questions for the eight voice actors I mentioned inVolume 48, there's a bit of grown-up fidoodling we have to clear first, so just be patient. We've gotten plenty of questions and we'll take many more. I've noticed that it's mostly serious questions for now. You know, you can send them the weird ones you give me, too.
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 50.

D:P.N. Many Apologies
O:M-Moria...? I didn't expect the guy barely clinging to his life to come running to start the SBS. By the way, the above title art was selected from the many that we received afteradvertising about it in Volume 49. It's been fun choosing, so I picked a bunch, and I think I'll do that in the future, too. Remember, send them to theUsopp Galleryaddress!
D:P.N. Jump Kid
O:OKAY, FORGET IT!! You're taking up WAY too much space for the opening! I want to answer QUESTIONS, dammit!
D:P.N. Kurakichi
O:Okay, time to get things back on track by answering reader questions. Now we've got nine people who want in onCP9, and seven people volunteering for theSeven Warlords of the Sea. Now I want all sixteen of you to GET THE HELL OUTTA HERE!!!
D: "I'm gonna be... the Pirate King."P.N. Prince TA5 of the Kingdom of Dreams
O:Riiight...
D: I think sailing these days is a lot better and the ships are built nicer, but what about in the olden days? Where would they flush the poop? Like, just send it to heaven, straight into the sea?P.N. Sorry for Speaking Frankly
O:Ah, yes. On sailing ships, it was normal that there would just be a hole on the deck that you would deposit waste into. The hole would run down into the water beneath the boat. There are much fewer sailboats now than there were in the past, and the ones being built today will of course have flushing toilets, the type like on airplanes that go "whoosh!" when you flush them. Imagine theSunnyhas that, too. However, the dudes like to dispose of their waste in various creative ways.
D: This is my first postcard. On the third panel of p. 107 in Volume 49,Chapter 475, there are guys saying they're theRisky Brothers! Also, thezombiewho tried to take Nami's group to Moria (V.47, C.451) was one of the Risky Brothers, too, wasn't he?P.N. Yoshiki
O:Yes, that's right. Those cute lil' squirrels were being moved by the shadows of some crusty, greasy men.
D: Let's split up right here.P.N. Horra the Divorcer
O:Sure. There's more SBS to come!
D: Hello, Oda-sensei! I've been thinking aboutBrook's birthday! Since he has theYomi Yomi no Mi, why not use yo-mi (4-3) to make April 3 his birthday?!P.N. Lala
O:Okay, that's settled.
D: Oda-senseeei! Look this waaay! Boobs Attack! Boinggg.P.N. Two Looks at Ka*ko and *ka's Jugs
O:Wheee! What paradise! KNOCK IT OFF!!! Jeez, you guys!! Stop ruining the sanctity of the SBS!! Huff, huff...
D: Congratulations on bringing Brook into the crew, Oda-sensei! I'm all jelly-legged at the thought of him... like I'm boneless! So now that the crew has reached eight other members, I was hoping you could answer all the personal questions you did earlier, for all of the folks who weren't around at the time!by Getchu Inazuma
O:I see. And you listed all the questions for me, too. Thanks.
Robin:
Franky:
Brook:
D: Oda-sensei, you always avoid the readers' "Shigans" and such by using "Soru"! Did you use to be in CP9? I'm so curious, I can't spend my allowance yet!from Female CP9 Research Group
O:Am I busted? Oh, well... I guess there's no hiding it, then. Yes, I was once a member of CP9.Lucci's CP9 is "Cipher Pol No. 9," but in my case, CP9 was "Cadet Panties: 9 - pairs" I mean, they're basically the same thing.
D: In Volume 47-48, who changedNamiinto the wedding dress? It wasn't that old zombie dude with the measuring tape inChapter 458, was it? Because that would be terrible. He must have seen her naked when he was changing her outfit! What a disgusting zombie! from Ariga-san
O:Duhh................................... Oh!! Damn! I totally went into a daydream just now. Who could have done that?! It's just filthy. Duhh....................
D: Here's my question: on p. 80 of Volume 42,Sanjisays "I was raised to never kick a woman." Would that have been a lesson fromZeffthe Chef? Would that mean Zeff is very soft on women, as well? Tell me.from Ariga-san
O:Oops, this one's from the same person as the last one. This is a good question though, so I'll answer it. When I drew Sanji vsKalifa(Chapter 403), some people lauded Sanji's stance, and some people felt sorry for him. The truth is, I didn't really want to write those lines. Sanji doesn't have a "policy" of not kicking women; the truth is that he actually CAN'T kick them. He is a very proud man. I think he was really frustrated at that. think Nami recognized that, and chose to praise him for once. It's a scene that I hope will resonate with male readers, but everyone's free to take it as they wish. Also, Zeff is just a man among men.
D: Hello, Odacchi. So here's a quick question. You said that when fourRumble Ballsare eaten, YOU go crazy... but when five are eaten, the readers go crazy! (Just like me...) Choppaaaaaaaaar!!!P.S. Seems like all the readers in the SBS have eaten five.
O:Whoa!!Chopperlooks WEIRD! Yikes! Wow, so all those people who have been sending in postcards for the SBS were eating Rumble Balls? It all makes so much sense now.
D: Please put out a CD of "Binks' Sake". Where it says "Lyrics by Eiichiro Oda."P.N. Fusion!!! Ha!!!
O:Right. Maybe Binks' Sake WILL come out sometime. That chant was actually fully written by the very first time Brook appeared in the story. In fact, this is a great time to explain that I went to the great anime authorityKohei Tanaka-san to write the music for me ahead of time, because when it came around to the anime, I didn't want the lyrics I wrote to mess up the guys who had to turn that song into music. I told him, "I'm going to doThriller Barkin a year or so," and it only took what, like four or five years? Ha ha. Well, it took an hour or so, but he managed to make the lyrics fromChapter 488(The Song of Life) match up. At first, it had a frightening sound, but by changing the performance, it became funny. Therefore, Thriller Bark owes a great debt to the incredible Kohei "Genius" Tanaka. Hope you like the anime! I was actually hoping to get the song in school textbooks, but since it had "sake" in it, I had to give up on that. I hope you all sing it, just the same. And now, END THE SBS!! See you next volume!!!
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 51.

D: Oda-sensei! Dos Fleur!! Grasp!! Squeeze!! ...I've got a hold on you. Now, you may start the SBS.P.N. Kin-chan 2
O:HODYAAAAAA!!!! S-st...art...the...S... HODYAAAAAAA...
D: Are Kizaru and Akainu stronger even than Aokiji?P.N. Osumansan
O:Hahh, hahh... Sorry for the late introduction. Hello. I'm the author, who got his Balls Flattened by a Reader... you can call me Balltender. But who cares! Here's a question...YIKES!! What the hell is THIS?! Kizaru?! Get outta here! I'm gonna have nightmares! Sorry P.N. Osumansan, Kizaru's already appeared! He'll show up in the next volume. Actually, you're not that far off, though.
D: Umm, this is my first postcard. It was love at first sight when Brook came into the story. Please tell me what his age and height are!P.N. Child Pirate
O:I'll tell you. He was 38 when he died 50 years ago, so he'd be 88 now. He's 2 m 66 cm, and he also wears a hat that bumps him another 20 cm. He's quite a tall fellow.
D: Greetings, Odacchi! Here's a question. Around Volume 46, Brook said something about "if only my tears hadn't dried up", but in Volume 50, he's cryin' his eyes out! Why is that?P.N. Kyo-chan
O:Because even when his tears of sadness dry... his tears of joy can still flow. Why is that? Because people are kind. Okay. Next question. (Dandy, low-pitched voice)
D: I'LL BE MORIA'S REPLACEMENT!P.N. Little Onion
O:Okay. Next question. (Dandy, low-pitched voice)
D: Odacchi!! Hello! I'm a fresh young 14-year-old girl! I have a question for you, my beloved mentor! You know about yoji-jukugo, those four-character sayings? (You do, right?) What would you use to describe Luffy's pirate crew? Ishindenshin (communion of minds, telepathy)? Junintoiro (different strokes for different folks)? ...Oh!!! Is it yakiniku teishoku (yakiniku set meal)???P.N. Gachapin's Cousin
O:Do I know... yoji-jukugo? Do I know them... DO I KNOW THEM??!! YES!! My favorites are "Snake & Crane", "Shaolin Soccer", and "Black Oolong Tea". Now, if I were to describe the Straw Hat Crew with a yoji-jukugo, I'd say... Zendai mimon (unprecedented, unheard of) would do it. That one came up inEnies Lobby. I hope they'll always be the crew that's breaking the mold.
D: MARRY ME!!P.N. Man
O:No. (Dandy, low-pitched voice)
D: Smilies for the Straw Hat Crew! Send them to your friends through e-mail! Spirit! Donnn!P.N. Rosie
O:Oooh! This is a good one. Really well done. I can tell all of them.
Very evocative and descriptive! Chopper and Robin are especially brilliant. Bravo!
D: What's the third-most important thing on a voyage after food? Laundry. Who does it? Nami doesn't seem likely (sorry). If Sanji did it... he might ***** with the ladies' panties. Aaagh!P.N. Daze
O:Laundry, huh? Well, to avoid the kind of situation we can all imagine, the boys and girls split the task. Nami and Robin take turns doing their laundry everyday. Apparently all seven men have a huge cleaning extravaganza once a week. I guess this works out for them, since they rarely change outfits anyway. Right, Chopper?
C: Yeah, everyone stinks! We're all dirty!
D: Good things will happen, EVEN TO YOU!!by Underling of the God of Fortune
O:Wow, really?! Sweet! I wonder what it'll be. Maybe some porno mags will fall down from the sky right into my hands. Sighhh... (depressed at his pathetic self)
D: How can Cap'n Lola have been turned down 4,444 times, when she's so cool and awesome? What's the reason?P.N. Akie Brand
O:Well, she makes a very strong impact... and she's too aggressive. Don't worry, I bet she'll be happy (in her own way).
Round rainbow
D: Hello, Oda-sensei. In Chapter 490 of Volume 50, there is a "round rainbow". I saw one of them at school recently. What are they made of? Please explain GRACEFULLY. Heh heh.P.N. Rag
O:That's incredible. It's impossible to see circle rainbows unless a very specific set of coincidences occur. Now, to start, I realize I only put it into one little panel, but they honestly do exist. By which I mean, rainbows ARE circles. Fig. 1: Rainbows (Sun), Water Screen, Reflection of 42 degrees! Fig. 2: This might be hard to understand in the picture, but a rainbow is formed when light from the sun is refracted through water droplets into bands of color. Unless the three elements to the left (sun, water, human) are placed exactly in the circumstances shown, you can't see a rainbow. The angle that light refracts into colors of visible light is at 42 degrees. Because humans are standing on the ground, the lower half of the circle is blocked by the horizon. Therefore, seeing a rainbow in the sky above from sea would be nearly impossible on Earth, but since this was the Grand Line, I figured maybe it would happen. When I was talking to a mangaka friend of mine, he said he saw a round rainbow while flying on a plane, so according to theory, it should work if you're in the air. I suppose you might even see one from the roof of your school. Hey, what is this, a science textbook?! Don't worry, folks, we're returning you to your normally scheduled dumb manga, One Piece! Don't change the channel!!
D: Odacchi, Odacchi! Is your uncle a taxi driver? When I went to Kyoto, I got a One Piece poster and a copy of the original art from the Volume 6 cover from him! This is so fascinating to me, I can't get my exam studies done! ThanxP.N. Jana
O:Yep, that sounds like none other than my uncle. He tells, me, "Ei-chan, yer uncle's always pitchin' yer story to his customers!" He went so overboard, the company told him to tone it down, but I'm sure he's still driving around Kyoto, telling people about me. If you happen to ride with him, say hello.
D: Is the Thriller Bark story inspired by things like The Addams Family and The Nightmare Before Christmas? I love the atmosphere in those films.P.N. Plate-loving Cindry-chan
O:Yes, the films. I love them too. In order to draw Thriller Bark, I even watched a lot of zombie movies, which I've never really done before. By my nature, I don't like scary things, so even though I put a lot more black into the art, I still tried to make silly, funny zombies. When artists draw about ghosts and dead people and things that aren't meant for polite society, they always go to the shrine to pray beforehand... as did I. I mean, I don't want to get cursed or anything.
Franky's Personal Jolly Rogers
D: Oda-sensei, I'd like to inform you of something! The skull and crossbones design for Franky differs between Volume 47, p. 166, and the pamphlet for the movie, "Episode of Chopper."P.N. Lemon Cola
O:Busted? I noticed that afterward. Before I drew it for the volume, Toei Anime came to me and said, "We drew a symbol for Franky, is this good?" and I said, "Sure it is!" and then completely forgot about it, so we wound up with two. And hey, they're both Franky's, to be sure. Why can't he have two symbols?
D: Konnichiwa, Oda-sensei! I've got a question for the guy that's kept me on the edge of my seat for the last ten years! In Chapter 501, "As the World Begins to Roil", there's a spot on the human market price list right below Merfolk that says "Female, 2-legged". Does that mean they sell mermaids that are in relationships with two men at once? I'm so flustered I can't even find a girlfriend.by Kinta
O:That's right. Prices drop on those slutty mermaids that string two guys along at once! Are... you... KIDDIN' ME!! As Kokoro-san explained in Chapter 424, Volume 44, "the tailfin splits into two legs around age 30, and they become able to live on land after that". That says it all. Basically, young mermaids like Camie sell for higher prices, is all. For further questions about mermaids, I plan to explain more about them in the story ahead.
D: Doesn't your tongue get twisted when you say, "Nikyu Nikyu no Mi no Nikukyuu Ningen"? (A padman with Nikyu Nikyu Fruit Powers) Spill the beans, Kuma-san.P.N. Tomo-san
O:Probably not. He's a Warlord of the Sea. Right, Kuma-san? Let's have him say it three times fast! Take it away, bud!!
Kuma:Nikyuniku!!
O:And with that... the SBS is over... See you again... next time.
Kuma:Nikyu nikyu nyo!!
O:Knock it off!!!
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 52.

D: Oda-sensei, greetings. I'd actually like to begin the SBS now... is that all right? Oh, I won't say all of it. Just half will do... what? I can?! Thank you very much!! Well, I'll say half, and you can do the other half, Oda-sensei. Here we go... START THE SBS!!!P.N. Yusaku
O:You said the whole damn thing!!! I hoped I'd at least get to say "SBS", or failing that, the "BS", or maybe just "S"...
D: IfCamiehad a friend named "Ochin", what would she call them?P.N. Marin
O:She calls everyone "chin", so it would have to be "OCHIN-CHIN". (Dick) Slump... Why do I get these questions to start off the book?! And I got multiple versions of this exact same question from all over the country.
D: Is it true that you have Luffy and everyone else (the men, at least) all use the first-person pronoun "ore" written in hiragana? It's true, isn't it? Is there a reason for that?? You could have written it in katakana or in kanji, so why choose hiragana?? I've been wondering!P.N. My Call Waiting is Luffy - Narin
O:That is a VERRRRY interesting observation... after 52 volumes... and 11 years. You're correct. Many people choose to write "ore" in katakana or kanji to make it visually distinct from the rest of the sentence. But I hold belief in my use of hiragana. It's hard to explain, but I want to write it in hiragana, and I don't want to write it any other way. It's just the spirit of my heart.
D: AM I PSYCHIC?!P.N. I swear, the cup moved on its own!
O:I DON'T CARE!!
D: Hey, Odacchi! What's that thing that's been appearing in my kitchen, dressed in all black and using Soru?! A new CP9 member?! I'm terrified that it might start using Geppou... Please do something, Odacchi!P.N. Farewell!! Back from the Clink
O:I have a feeling you might be talking about, let's see, from the "cockroach" genus, the "cockroach" family... Yes, I believe it's called the "cockroach"? You DO know that they
can fly, right? They use thatGeppou. One of them flew right at me and collided with me, once... It was traumatic. They use the Six Forms, make no mistake. Fight!!

D: Admiral! Admiral! Question for Admiral Oda! At the beginning of Chapter 502, "The Celestial Dragon Incident", how is that his turdliness Charlos was picking his nose? Oh, wait! Is that the same as the bon chari?by Kinta
O:Aye-aye, that's correct. As it's a bubble, it can be breached. Those bubbles come in handy in terms of creating the town, the rides at the theme park, and even the daily lives of the residents of theSabaody Islands. I hope you enjoy the sense of fun that brings.

D: On p. 95 ofVolume 51, Brook seems to be getting a mouthful from Nami. What did he tell her?P.N. Ari
O:Well spotted. Let's listen in on their conversation.
Brook:"Excuse me, Nami-san, might I have a quick postprandial gander at the pantaloons?"
Nami:Crack!! "Hell no!!"
You know. The usual.
D: I'm a Maiko from Kyoto! Is this the place they call Shimoneta (S) Boshuu (B) Shimasu (S)? (Now taking dirty jokes). Oda-sensei, you shouldn't advertise something like that! I thoughtFrankywas so cute every time he responded to the word "hentai" inChapter 494! Maybe he should make a "formation" with me, sometime.P.N. Maiko-han
O:Wow! Are you a real Maiko? You seem to have changed the meaning of this section, but I don't really mind! And Franky? Oh, yes yes yes. He keeps hearing the word "hentai" and thinks they're talking about him. I think he's a little too fixated on his status as a hentai! Please do send me another postcard someday!
(Note: There is a pun in that "hentai" is both the sound of the word for "formation" and also for "pervert", as Franky is so very proud of being.)

D: Oda-sensei, ifCP9and theSeven Warlords of the Seaare out, could you put him in theStraw Hat Pirates?P.N. Nezumi Junior
O:KNOCK IT OFF!! THAT'S ENOUGH OF THAT!! Hahh, hahh... I'm sorry, I shouldn't be getting out of sorts over a couple of children. As a matter of fact, everyone, I've received a letter of thanks from someone. It feels so wonderful to be thanked. Please see below.

D: ToEiichiro Oda-sensei. It's nice to see you again. I am the person who first recommended "him" on p. 26 of Volume 41. I have written you this letter to express my deepest gratitude. (rest abridged)
O: IT WAS YOUUUUU!! DONGGG!! Hikari Nomura! It was you! YOUR fault... How much irreparable damage has he done to the SBS? Well, don't be thankin' me, you angled dork! The letter gave me all the thanks I needed.
D: This is Jinbe, the Warlord of the Sea!!
Warlord of the Sea "Jinbe"
by General Morishi
O:HEY YOUUUU!! I'm not gonna use that! There's no WAY that could be a Warlord of the Sea!!

D: Listen up! As I was slipping on my favorite briefs after today's bath, I suddenly realized that I don't have a shadow! When did it get taken away? What kind of mario could my shadow have been put into? Please askMoriafor me. Thanks!by Iwashi-chan
O:Who was it, Moria-san?
Moria:Kishishishishi! Shut the hell up! Tell him yourself!!
O:Okay. I found him for you. It's him on the right. He got lectured by Luffy.
D: Oda-sensei, you have assistants like other artists, right? Other manga you can recognize when stuff is obviously done by assistants, but when you look at One Piece from the first volume, it doesn't seem that way! Do you draw everything that appears in the art?P.N. Girl Who Reread it from Volume 1
O:Absolutely not, I couldn't draw every single thing. My staff draws the backgrounds for me. When I show them my setting art, they deconstruct it and ensure that everything gets
displayed perfectly. My staff is incredibly talented. Perhaps the difference you're seeing is that I draw 100% of anything "living or moving", including mob scenes, animals, smoke, clouds, seas, etc. When you leave the movement up to someone else, it can't help but cause abnormalities in your art. It becomes awkward. This is all just my particular obsession within my work, however.
D: Oda-sensei, this is my first ever question for you. I sometimes read books about pirate history, and are my guesses at the source of the "Supernova" Rookies' names correct?
Eustass "Captain" Kid= 13th century pirate "Eustace the Monk" + 17th century Scottish pirate "William Kidd"
"Red Flag" X. Drake= 16th century English adventurer and privateer "Sir Francis Drake"
"Magician" Basil Hawkins= "John Hawkins", similar to above + 17th century pirate doctor "Basil Ringrose"
Capone "Gang" Bege= "Thomas Cavendish", similar to above
"Surgeon of Death" Trafalgar Law= 18th century English pirate "Edward Low"
"Big Eater" Jewelry Bonney= 18th century woman pirate "Anne Bonny"
"Mad Monk" Urouge= 16th century Arab pirates Barbarossa brothers, "Oruç Reis"
"Roar of the Sea" Scratchmen Apoo= 19th century Chinese pirate "Chui A-poo"
I'm not sure about Killer, but if any of these are wrong, I'm sorry!!P.N. Chiiyan Miiyan SP
O:Fantastic! That's very helpful of you. It saves me the trouble of explaining. There's only one thing. Capone "Gang" Bege comes from the famous American gangster,Al Capone, and the English privateer, William le Sauvage. Think of "privateers" as pirates like the Seven Armed Seas. Also, Killer is just me being lazy. So, that's right, the rookies' names come from actual pirates. Of course, they ARE just names, after all, but I think it probably got the people who like pirates all in a tizzy. This does it for my SBS! On p. 148 you'll find the start of our new project!
H.S.K.!! (Hey, Salutations Kids)
Thanks for being patient. How many years now have I been fielding letters asking for profiles of the seiyu for the anime? And what volume was it that I promised to do an SBS for the seiyu? Well, as everyone knows, I am a man who keeps his word, just later than anyone would like. So here I am, fulfilling another long-awaited promise! Yo!
Well, I'm still not sure exactly how I should go about this, but at any rate, I think we'd better start with our hero, THE VOICE OF MONKEY D. LUFFY!! The super-genius voice actress, MAYUMI TANAKA-SAN in the house!!
O:Hello there, Mayumi-san.
T:Hello. What's the matter?
O:We're doing the SBS today.
T:Oh, I know this one. It's that "Short Break Section", right?
O:Well, in a way, kind of. But the correct answer is... well, you'll find out. Here are your questions to be answered. (thwump!)
T:Wow. They send in questions like THIS?
O:That's right. These are my readers. Good luck!
Preview for Next Volume's VA SBS
As in this volume, we'll take turns at each person one at a time, so we're asking especially for questions to the following two! There won't be another chance to do this, so take the time now! Zoro (Kazuya Nakai-san) Nami (Akemi Okamura-san) Let's all ask Zoro-san and Nami-san weird questions! Send it to the SBS address, okay?
D: Ncha! Sorry Odacchi, I'm letting Mayumi Tanaka-san start this SBS. Smooch! Take it away! P.N. Rubosu
T:Time to start the Short Break Section!!
O:I already told you, Mayumi-san! This corner is... that kind of corner, I guess.
D: Have you ever gone to a party or a banquet with the acting cast of the Straw Hat Pirates?from Kanna Kawato
T:My One Piece colleagues come to the training room of my house to have takoyaki festivals. In fact, the seiyu for Usopp fell asleep in the napping futon for little kids and caused quite a ruckus.
D: Please, don't mind me, continue!P.N. Usamikki
T:Huh? Continue playing Luffy? Did you want to play Luffy? OKAY, I'LL BE ZORO.
D: A question for Tanaka-san. When you get telemarketers and sales calls, do you ever use Luffy's voice to make answering machine messages? Tell me!! Please...by Wendy
T:I just talk normally, and I get the "Can I speak to your mom?" routine. So I say, "I AM the mom!" and that gets them startled. Serves you right!
D: I'm such a big fan! I bet I've seen just about every anime you've ever acted in. By the way... "Take this! Negative Hollow!!"by Maron
T:I'm sorry... that such a little old lady... does the voice... of Luffy...
D: I was wondering, since Luffy seems to have so many scenes where he eats as he talks, do you actually act his lines while you eat, Tanaka-san? I've been very curious about this for a long time, so please tell me!P.N. Ayako
T:I am a voice actress in pursuit of reality! Of COURSE I prepare exactly what kind of food it is that Odacchi draws, and eat it!!
D: I enjoy watching the One Piece anime every week! I want to know if you are thinking of the feeling of picking your own nose when you say the lines in which Luffy is mining for his own gold. Or do you actually plug your honker with a finger while you are acting?P.N. Pickwinner III
T:I AM A VOICE ACTRESS IN PURSUIT OF REALITY!!
D: Luffy has a lot of lines to shout. How much does that sap your stamina?P.N. Calorie
T:Each shout takes so much out of me, I actually get shorter. When I recorded the first episode of One Piece, I was 175 cm tall, and after a decade, I'm now just 147.5 cm.
D: PLEASE BE MY MOTHER.Penname: High Socks Three Days at a Time in the Winter
T:Certainly. However, sometimes I turn into a short-haired father. Is that all right?
O:WHAT IN THE WORLD ARE YOU DOING?! Enough!! Look forward to more voice seiyu SBS in the next volume!!
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 53.

D: Mow. Moo. Moo. Mo. Mow....now, let's start the SBS. Follow the rhythm, Odacchi! One, two, three, go!P.N. Yukari Member (Cow) Fusae
O:C'mon, everyone! Mow. Moo. Moo. Mo. Mow. WHAT DOES THAT MEAN?! What kind of greeting is that? And who is Fusae?
Kalifa wearing the "Criminal" brand
D: In the CP9 Off-Duty Report from Chapter 502 of Volume 51, isKalifawearing the Criminal brand that's tearing up Fish-Man Island?! Why is that up on land? And is Kalifa a brand junkie?P.N. MOTO
O:Very well spotted. Yes, that's a T-shirt fromPappag's "Criminal" brand. I feel like Kalifa does enjoy brand clothing. Criminal's popular onFish-Man Island, but it's also sold up on land. By the way, in Japanese we also call a criminal the "hoshi", or "star", in police lingo. That's why the star is a big part of the brand.
D: Oda-sensei, hello this isBorsalino!! About the hyper-cutie mermaidCamie-chan! How about her birthday being November 3, for K (11) and Mi (3)?P.N. Say Yes!
O:Hello Borsalino! Sure. Sure Borsalino!!
D: So you're not going to grow an afro, Oda-sensei? I really think you should do it.by Hiromu
O:Hell no! When did I promise to do that?!
D: Why did you want to be a pirate, Odacchi? You're a grown-up now!P.N. Urumoru
O:I never said I wanted to! Why am I being chastised like this?

D: The Dark KingSilvers Rayleighis too awesome. He gives me the chills. By the way, I spotted a younger Rayleigh in Buggy's flashback scene from Chapter 19 (p. 34, Volume 3). I was amazed that this character's appearance had been created so long ago.P.N. Kanpura
O:Mmm!! Yes, I received many letters to this extent, and it's having so many attentive readers like this that makes it worthwhile to do these things. I did explain that this man was in fact the first mate of the ship in an SBS quite a while back, so yes... he was indeed the Right Arm of thePirate King, Silvers Rayleigh! The great thing is that Kanpura-san is a 48-year-old dude. I love that I'm giving someone like that the chills.
D: Is that Volume 12 of One Piece thatKumacarries around? My friend just INSISTS that it's Volume 13, and he won't see reason. What's your opinion, Oda-san?Penname Yuma x 527
O:12-13 was around when we got into the Grand Line. I dunno, Kuma always seems like he's bored, so maybe he's carrying Volume 33 so he can get a few laughs from the Davy Back Fight. Or maybe he's cradling his very first appearance in Volume 25. Which volume could it be?! Gosh, it's so hard to tell. Give it all a good thinking over, folks! Seeya!
D: Question for Odacchi! In one of the earlier SBS sections, you said the volume release schedule for One Piece is two months, two months, three months! But it seems like lately, it's been more like three months and three months! Is it some publishing schedule thing? Or do you get tired of putting together the volumes? Tell us! Tell us, or I'll burn that pile of nudie mags over there! You want them to turn into ash and dust?P.N. Syouya
O:These are reference materials! I need them to do my work! Well, when I said that, it was the truth, as that was the schedule at the time. But the three-month breaks have been more often recently, I admit. The reason is that because I sometimes take breaks from Jump (in which I do other work instead), it means I don't end up with enough chapters to put out a volume in two months. From now on, you should probably assume it will be three-month waits with an occasional two months. Also, while I'm at it, I'm going to announce that the other thing I mentioned in the SBS about having 11-chapter volumes will no longer occur. About the previous volume, they increased the price slightly on all the Jump volumes. At the same time, they told me that fitting in 11 chapters would mean a 20-yen bump. If you end up paying 20 more yen for a volume, it's not as much of a bonus anymore, is it? So in the future, there will only be 10 chapters in a volume, max. Just letting you know!
Pirate who bit his tungue
D: Oda-sensei! I've discovered something! The second panel on p. 39 of Volume 52. Right in the middle of the celebrating former slaves isLacuba, the pirate who bit his tongue and fell unconscious in Volume 51!! And he seems totally awake and pumped!!! And on top of that, his tongue is flat on the end!!! I was so shocked and pleased to have noticed this.P.N. Trafalgar Tomo
O:Isn't that great? I'm so glad he didn't die. If you chop you tongue off, you die, folks! Be careful!
Money in the world of One Piece
D: Hello, Oda-sensei! I'm curious as to the faces that are on the berry bills that get used as money in the world of One Piece! You've never really drawn them in detail before! So use this as a golden opportunity! Oh, and for each of the denominations, of course.P.N. Pussycat Aki
O:I see. Yeah, I guess I haven't drawn them in detail. There, all drawn. What? You think I'm being lazy? Never! Wait! Yes, that does happen. Anyway, these are finalized. It's official.
D: InChapter 487,Brookpicked up a skeleton with a polka-dot shirt, which is the guy who asked to be given sword lessons in life. But inChapter 488, you can see him alive as Brook is saying, "Shall we sing?" They supposedly died as they sang, so he must have gotten stabbed with the sword later... when was that? And who did it?P.N. Kopin
O:Very close eye you've got. I got a couple letters about this, so allow me to introduce you! These are the identical twinMizutabrothers.

D: I noticed that the cover page in Issue 48 of Jump (Chapter 519) was pasted with gray screentone. You once used a black background for the cover, but I understood once I saw the number 519 was the number of the final chapter of your beloved Akira Toriyama's Dragon Ball. So it was a message that you had finally caught up to him, right?
O:Ahh, very good. You understand! That's right. Well, it wasn't a message so much as it was a personal mark to myself. Of course, some of you may think that because Dragon Ball had only 42 volumes, that I passed it long ago, but as that was started as a gag manga originally, it only has 15 pages per chapter. One Piece is a story manga with 19-page chapters, so after the same 12 years, I end up with 53 volumes instead. Sorry for costing you more money! I'm hoping to finally getting around to finishing One Piece, but as I'd hate to leave this expansive story I've created without a proper ending, I'm afraid it will just have to keep going for a bit.
D: Hello, Oda-sensei.CP9is sweeping my entire school. It's a Shigan battle everyday, and my body is full of holes. By the way, I heard that you can use the legendary SEVEN Forms, which is even better than the normal Six. What's the very last one? Please tell us.P.N. CP608
O:YOU FOUND OUT? ...Yes. That's right. I was trying to hide it, but in fact, I am the legendary Seven Forms User. The Six Forms are, of course, Shigan, Geppou, Tekkai, Soru, Kamie, and, uhhhh... oh yeah, Rankyaku! But I can use one more superhuman form! And that is... "CHOKKAI" (Bother)! Umm, that's when I bug the hell out of people who are seriously trying to fight me... It's umm, well, a very annoying and obnoxious move, but... Do you have a problem with that?!
D: Oda-san, if you were to take a vacation, where would you prefer to go? POOF!!from Junpei-san
O:!!!... (See you again next volume! Our new corner will begin on p. 188)
Kazuya Nakai
H.D.K.!! (Hey Dere Kids)It's time for the second installment of voice actor SBS. People seemed to love the last one. I'm glad we did it. So, here we go. This time, it's a panel with our swordsman, THE VOICE OF RORONOA ZORO!! The mighty KAZUYA NAKAI-SAN, whom legend says once farted as he shouted "Onigiri" in the house!!
O:Well, here's Nakai-san. Please introduce yourself in a low voice.
N:Hello, I'm Kazuya Nakai. My favorite sweets are... rice cakes wrapped in oak leaves.
O:I wasn't asking.
N:Don't be so cold, Odacchi.
O:I'm not being cold. There's a certain order and amount of space we have here. So please do the SBS right. You know what SBS stands for, right?
N:Of course. The "(S)orry, (B)ut I'm too (S)tupid" corner.
O:'You DON'T know!! ...And why are you looking so satisfied with that joke?
N:Let me try again. It's the "I (S)haved my head (B)ald, now it's (S)hivery" corner.
O:What kind of corner is that?! Forget it! Here you go: your questions. (thwump!) Have fun cutting those down.
N:Okay.
Nakai-san's SBS continues on p. 208!
Preview for Next Volume's VA SBS
We're now taking questions for these two people in the next two volumes! Have no regrets!
Nami (Akemi Okamura-san) Usopp (Kappei Yamaguchi-san)
Let's all ask Nami-san dirty—er, cute questions, and send Usopp idiotic—er, hilarious ones! Send to the SBS address at the end of the volume.
It's our swordsman, Kazuya Nakai's SBS Corner
D: I love watching the anime! This is a question for Nakai-san. Zoro seems to get hurt more than anyone in One Piece. Do you ever take damage as a result of your role?? Please tell us!from Spirit of Zero
N:Remember what the captain said? We aim for reality. When I have to play those scenes, I get the rest of the cast to beat me up!
D: To Nakai-san. PLEASE BE MY BROTHER!!P.N. Marimo Korigori
N:DON'T CALL ME BROTHER! I'M A GIRL IN MY HEART! (accidentally said aloud)
D: Hello, Nakai-san. In the Alabasta Arc, all the men except for Zoro looked at the girls in the bath. If you were there, would you have looked?P.N. Harason Beam
N:Nope. I'm an adult. It'd be more fun to hear the guys who looked describe it and imagine for myself... since I'm an adult.
D: Are your abs totally hard and ripped like Zoro's? Just HOW amazing are your abs, anyway?P.N. Yoh
N:MY BUTTCHEEKS ARE TOTALLY HARD AND RIPPED.
D: Nakai-san, did you cut your hair? I did. It went down to my butt, and now it's only to my shoulders.P.N. Hebi
N:DON'T CALL ON ME IF YOU HAVE NOTHING TO SAY.
D: Nakai-san! "I LOVE YOU!! MARRY ME!!" (Laura the Proposer-style) Give me a manly answer, like Zoro would.P.N. Vague Shii
N:BLEEDING THE WOLF!
D: Question for my beloved Nakai-sama! Zoro is a muscle training freak, right? Do you do muscle training too, to get into the role?? Gasp! Of course! I'll use Negative Hollow! Now you'll be like Mayumi Tanaka-san!! "Take this! Negative Hollow!!!"P.N. Naocchi
N:Sniff... I'm sorry that I'm Zoro... and have 23% body fat...
D: Nakai-san! Take this!! ONIGIRIIIAAAAAAAAA!!!! PFFRT!! * Don't hold those farts in; let them fly! Poot!P.N. Tony
N:Ohhhh! That's the legendary skill I used one fateful day, years ago... Over-reliance on it may have MESSY RESULTS.
D: I have a question for Kazuya Nakai-san. Are you really at odds with Sanji's actor in real life? I mean, they're sort of rivals in the manga (and anime), right??P.N. From a Southern Country
N:WHO'S SANJI?
D: PUT A KATANA IN YOUR MOUTH, AND SAY "ONIGIRI."by Kendo Team Starter
N:Munch, munch, "KATANA!" Munch, munch... huh? Backwards?
O:Thanks very much! We're done now. Time to leave, Nakai-san. Whoa, why are you scarfing down that onigiri? Next postcard will be the last one! Stop eating! Stop screaming "katana"! You're spitting rice! Look, the last one will be good, so if you have a funny answer, I might use it in the manga. Give it a shot.
D: Think up a new attack for Zoro. Something punny... Go on!H.N. Paper-Thin Margin
N:HIRU! TON! SHIMAI!
O:THAT'S WORTHLESS!! Enjoy the voice actor SBS in the next volume!!
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 54.

D: I want to see Killer's face.-Choko
O:Yeah, me too.
D: Hey, Oda. In volume 53, chapter 518, Hancock's "Mero Mero Mellow" had no effect on Luffy at all, but in volume 23, chapter 213, it looked like he had a reaction to Nami's "Happiness Punch". Why did he respond to Nami's naked body but no to Hancock's? Is Nami's body just that amazing?-Kazu
O:Wow, I got a lot of questions about this. Is this what you guys are paying attention to? Don't just read manga all day, go study some more!! Okay? Well, I say that, but I do nothing but draw manga. I noticed this when we were drawing it, but if Luffy had a nosebleed when he saw Hancock's body, I think you would all be like "Ehh!?". That's not the Luffy we know. I believe that Luffy reacted to Nami's naked body twice, in volumes 18 and 23, and both times it happened, Usopp was with him! He's the suspicious one! In other words, when Luffy is alone, his reaction is what it was with Hancock. He's interested, but he's not entranced by her. But when he's with Usopp, who's the same age, it's like a kid on a school trip: his bad side comes out!! Yeah, both sides of Luffy feel right to me, so the culprit is definitely Usopp!!
D: Nice to meet you. I'm always reading One Piece. Here's my question: when I reread from volume 1, I noticed that Luffy doesn't have a lot of thought bubbles. Why is that? Thanks for your answer.-Mizuiro Ribon
O:I see~ You've noticed something interesting in the 54 volumes we have. Just like how I write "ore" in hiragana, I've just been doing it for so long that it's become something like my policy. I decided this in the beginning. For Luffy, it would be something like,
This is the kind of stuff that goes on in Luffy's mind. For the readers, I wanted to make him a straight shooting kind of man, so I wrote him thinking like, "If he's thinking it, he'll say it" and "Action speaks louder than words". In the Sky Island arc, he dealt with the Mont Blanc Cricket situation by saying thing in his heart, but he's saying it with the same voice, so I decided that it was OK. From, here on, Luffy will act before he thinks!!
D: Oda! Your fly is... ah, forget that part. Anyway, here's my question: is one of the Yonko Wanze? My friends are all interested.-School-skipping pirates
O:Uh... Is my fly okay!? I'm seriously worried... Really, is it okay!!?
D: I have a question. In chapter 521, on page 183, in Lady Hebihime's flashback scene, it looks like Marigold is thinner! And she was quite the hottie too!! What happened to her!? Please tell me. ?- I love Chopper?
O:She didn't get fatter! It's muscle! She got stronger! She put on some muscles!! She's just eating chanko!! (Note: Chanko is a type of stew that sumo wrestlers traditionally eat.)
D: Starting with Lady Hebihime, I've totally fallen for the cool and cute Kuja girls, especially that wild girl with the jacket who smokes. However, I don't know any of their names! Like that girl who takes memos and the other Kuja pirates. Please tell me their names!-Ice Fish
O:The Kuja girls? That's a pretty cool name for them. Well, they do have names, and it's not like people don't want to know them, so here are some pages from my sketchbook. People who have free time can check these out.
Ran,Rindo,Daisy,Cosmos,Blue Fan(Kuja Pirates);Nerine(memo-freak);Belladonna(doctor);Enishida(maid).
D: Sensei... what would you do if you ate theSuke Suke no Mi?P.N. Kikori
O:EHEH ♡ ...... bo~~~~... ehehe...♡ ...Ah!! Next please.
D: Good mortening!! Hey Odacchi, in volume 53, on page 193, in the third panel, Elder Nyon is reading a newspaper, and Buggy is in it. Was he finally caught!? What happened to him?-Okage
O:You guys were reading that closely again... My readers' eyes are scary good. That's right. That's definitely Buggy. If you read this volume then, you'd find out that what happened to him, right!? He was caught! What happened was that he went to what he thought was Captain John's treasure cave, but it was actually a Marine garrison, and so he was caught! Or so it says in the article.
(Note: "Good mortening" is a play on morning, afternoon and evening.)
D: Hello, Oda. This is the first letter I've written to you. I always have fun reading. Really. So when you wrote in a SBS in volume 53 that you were going to slowly bring One Piece to a close, I ran to get a pen. Please don't say anything like that again. Don't say you're sorry for making us spent money, please. I know that this is a SBS, but I don't have any questions.- Taba
O:What do you mean no question!! But after I said that inVolume 53, I got a mountain of postcards like this, so I was surprised. There's no deep meaning behind it! Um, first, when I was talking about an ideal length of publication, I was thinking about the readers who have to buy all of the books. As an author, I always want new readers, but people who started reading in the middle, for example, might not know that Luffy was the first member of the Straw Hat Pirates.
I want them to know what kind of adventures they had and the friends they made along the way, but I can't just tell them to buy more than 50 books, right!? Even I know that kids don't have that kind of money! To deal with this and let people know the past story, we've made several summary books. But this time, My desire to make it as cheap as possible has been granted by two companies, "Caramel Mama" and "Hearty Way!" It's too cheap!! Because it's free!! Nice fight, guys!! They've made a site called "ONE PIECE WEB"! It has a perfect story guide. It explains the entire past story!! kids who can't afford all of the books can just go to this site! Access it! (Adults, you go buy the books, please.) So when I said that before, it was because I was worried about this, so I apologize. It's not like I'm losing my passion. I've only wanted to do one thing from the beginning, and that's to tell lots of stories and make an interesting manga until the end. In the big picture, One Piece is roughly in its middle third. If you have time, please stay with us. I'll always fight to make a story unlike any you've read before. And check out the website too!!
D: Mr. Oda. It looks like Boa Hancock appeared on the Jump cover 9 years ago! I was very surprised. Is that really her? Tell Me!- PX-10000
O:Wow, that really surprised me!! This was unexpected. Thank you, person on the Internet who found this. I honestly forgot about it myself. This picture is from "Color Works 2", an illustration collection. But at about that time, the story was entering the Grand Line, so I was asked to draw some enemies that would appear in the background, so I drew about four, and one of them was indeed Hancock. Naturally, when she actually appeared, I changed some things. But it's true that 9 years ago, I drew the Shichibukai Boa Hancock, Yup.
D: Odacchi, hello. I'm writing a letter from Liguria (a region of Italy, not as cool as Water Seven, though). When Spandine lands at Ohara, there are two agents with him, and I'd like to know if they have any connection with the current CP9 agents. Especially the man with glasses - I think he looks kinda like what Kalifa's dad would look like... Thanks For creating Robin!!!-Dario
O:It's Kalifa's dad! Yup, that's really the case. But I didn't really drop any hints about this, so I just decided on a whim to make him Kalifa's dad, and there's some backstory about that. The majority of CP9 is made up of orphaned children who were left to the government, but I thought it would be interesting if they also had the children of CP9 members, kind of like thoroughbreds. Kumadori's mom is different.
D: Hello Oda-sensei. I found out something about Nami's attacks. When she was fighting Kalifa, she used Mirage Tempo Fata Morgana, right? According to a book, that's the name of a famous witch, Morgana... But it's also a mirage that occurs in the Italian sea? Mmm, I don't really get it. Could you please explain this?-Leiru
O:Sure. I see. There are lots of explanations here. First, I named it after a mirage that can be seen on the island of Sicily in the Italian sea, which was in turn named after an illusionary fairy, called "Fata Morgana." But a witch named Morgana also appears in a European legend. I'm not really sure about the details. Either way, people thought that the mirage was something mysterious that the witch had done, so they named it after her.
D: Please Make Hancock's birthday September 2. Please. 9 (ku) / 2 (ja).-SUN
O:Kay.
D: It's about time for you to pick a birthday for Shanks!! I came up with 3/9, For Shan (3) kusu (9). Oda!! Please decide!! Please!!-Purin
O:Okay, that's fine.

Hi! How do you do? Good day!! This is the third installment of our voice actor SBS series! We've been getting lots of positive feedback on this series. The actors who're supposed to appear after this seen, to be complaining that we're raising the bar, but I don't care
about that. Now then, this time we have the voice of our navigator, Nami!! Ah, let me say something first to all our readers, you guys asked too many perverted questions!! Show some self control! Right. Now, here we go! The always sweet Okamura Akemi, in the house!
O (Oda):Right, it's Ms. Okamura. Please give us a splendid self introduction!
A (Akemi):Hello. I'm Okamura Akemi, and my smile never goes out.
O:Best, answer! Yes. That's great, let's do this whole thing seriously, just like that. So do you know what SBS stands for? Make it cute if you can.
A:Okay, I got it. Useless idiots should be beaten3. ?
3(S)houmonai (B)aka wa (S)hibuku wa yo
O: So scary!! Wait. I just introduced you as a sweet older sister type!! Don't destroy the kids' dreams, please!
A:Eh? No good? Then I'll try again. Boys like that should be beaten4. ?
4(S)onna (B)ouya wa (S)hibuku wa yo
O: Do you have to use "beating"!? Let's just start, here are the postcards. (Dosa). Please do your best!!
A:Right, I'll take care of it. ?
NEXT TIME, ON VOICE ACTOR SBS
Next time and the time after that, we have these two!! Don't leave anything unsaid!!
Usopp (Yamaguchi Kappei)
Sanji (Hirata Hiroaki)
D: Ms. Akemi, I have a question. Nami's always taking care of her Mikan tree, but do you actually like Mikans?-Kaorin
A:I love them. ? I always eat mikans during the winter in my kotatsu.
D: Asking Ms. Okamura Akemi!! Point blank! What kind of guys do you like? And if you had to date someone from the Straw Hats, who would it be?-TMT
A: I'd date them all, combined like this.
D: Have you had to say any lines that you thought were embarrassing!? And please tell us which ones. m(_ _)m-Windy
A:Once, the captain (Ms. Tanaka Mayumi) played a prank on me and changed my script so that the "te" in "Thunderbolt Tempo" was "chi5". I yelled the attack with "chi" as loud as I could. That was embarrassing~
5"Tenpo" => "Chinpo", "chinpo" is slang for penis.
D: To Ms. Okamura Akemi's SBS. Would you show me your panties?-Corobokkuru
A:AS IF!!!
D: Ms. Okamura Akemi, I always waste my money, so could you please say something to me as Nami?-Hiromu
A:I'll lend you money.♥ Only 30 percent interest! ♪
D: Ms. Akemi, what does it mean to have a faithful heart?-Umesen Chadzuke
A:How should I know?
D: Nice to meet you! In the past, one of my friends went to Jump Festa and told me that they saw you drinking on stage after a recording session. IP that's true, then you're quite the heavy drinker too, right? Can you drink as much as Nami can?-Aino
A:The One Piece cast? and staff have a lot of parties together. We don't just drink! There's food too!
D: Hello,Ms. Okamura! Here's my question: In the previous and the previous previous voice actor SBS, Ms. Tanaka and Mr. Nakai said that they strive for realism when they perform, so do you do the same? If so, when you did the "Happiness Punch," how did you... Uh, never Mind. Forget I said anything.-Nami Fan Club Member no. 73
A:Of course I work for realism too. When we did that, I didn't even wear under-WHA? ARE YOU TRYING TO GET ME ????!?
D: To Ms. Nami's Question Corner SBS: There are lots of scenes where Nami hits the other characters, so do you really hit the other cast members? You guys work for realism, right? And why don't you hit Chopper very much? Is it because he's cute?-Tanuki
A:Of course I do it for real. And I don't hit Chopper because his voice actress is my senior at the office, you know!? (Adult conversation ?)
D: Please draw your character!! (No peeking)-Tokoyan
A:
D: At Thriller Bark, Nami was the only one who didn't get hit with a Negative Hollow! I'll hit you just like I did Mr. Nakai! Take this! Negative Hollow!!!-Mayonnaise Black
A:... Uuuh... I'm sorry I'm so beautiful...
O:That's not negative at all!!! Right. Time's up, Ms. Okamura. The next question is kinda dangerous, so it might be better if you avoided it.
D: Hello, Ms. Okamura. I always have fun watching One Piece with my family. Here's my question. If you were to take a vacation, where would you like to go? (Like Kuma.) PON!!-Tsuyoshi-kun
A:NOOOOOOOO!!! (Somewhere warm, by the beach, where the food is good and the sky is beautiful, with a hot spring, where I can take it easy would be nice!!)
O:You've got too many demands!! Ah... She's gone. Farewell, Ms. Okamura. And thank you! Voice actor SBS! See you next time!!
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 55.

D: Hello, Odacchi! I wanted to send a letter, so I sent a letter.
O:Yes. Thanks a lot. Let's move on.
D: Captain T-Bone is in page 42 of volume 54, in panel 6 - but how did he survive after the fight with Zoro?
O:Ah! You're right. He's definitely there. That's captain T-Bone, who should have been unmistakably defeated in the Water Seven arc. As to how he survived, well, it just happened. It just happened in a manly way.
D: Don! I've gotta question! On page 110 of volume 52, when Capone's opening the gates in his stomach, isn't the "wandabadabadaba"-melody the same melody they played in the scenes when the members of "Ultraman" sailed from their machine?
O:Oh, is it? So that's what it was, huh. Yes. This is something we've received postcards about from various people, so if that's what everyone's saying, it's probably true. That is to say, when I was drawing I could clearly hear a melody in my head, and it was some kind of background music I'd heard as a kid, but - what exactly is it, I wondered as I drew. (Laugh) Incidentally, that melody is also used in volume 33 when the Groggy Monsters make their entrance.
D: Oda-sensei, I recently saw this on the news: "Power generated by cola! Bio-battery!"! When I saw that news, I naturally thought of Franky-aniki and Sunny-go! If they're making your ideas reality, so the next thing that will be realized is... what? According to you, what do you think will become real?
O:Hahaa. Oh, really...? With cola... they make batteries... Ah! Um, um, um, um, o-o-of course, I k-k-knew about it. Right, so, next maybe the Sea Train will become reality. Yep. When it's done, I want to go for a ride~.
D: Have the CP9 ever sprained their fingers when they've failed at the Shigan? I HAVE.
O:What are you doing!?? Don't do that! It did happen to the CP9 back when they were in training, though. But please everyone, don't imitate them. Because if you do, the PTA will get mad at me!
D: Nice to meet you. Everyone in my family's into One Piece. Right, here's the real question. Luffy was sent flying to the Island of Women in volume 53. Even though it's the Island of Women, this → was there on page 101, panel 3; page 140 panel 2; page 153 panel 1 etc. Who is this guy who looks like Pandaman?
O:So you found it, huh... It's not Pandaman! Of course it isn't, since the Island of Women is forbidden to men. The answer is... it'sPandawomanmi! It's said that Pandaman loves her. But it isn't known whether the feelings are mutual or not.
D: Greetings. Very pleased to meet you! We are the Panda Pirates from China. By the way, China has the largest crew~! People from all over the world have gathered in pirate crews through the Internet, and counting the registered users, we are about 40,000 people! (What's that?! Since it's China, you're not surprised? Well, well...)(Question) The buildings and landscape of the Island of Women feels a little Chinese in their character. Did you make it that way on purpose?
O:Yes, yes. The model for Amazon Lily is China. There are lots of movies and stories about Amazons, but I thought there were very few with an elegant setting. I wanted to make them a country of women with have an high cultural standard. Speaking of which, Chinese women are HOT! I love China dresses! Says Sanji.  
By the way, the representatives of the Internet group called the "Panda Pirates" who sent me this letter also sent me a a THICK envelope filled with messages from the members. There was a list of names, too, and there were One Piece fans from all over the world gathered together... Mmm, it made me really happy~! Please keep up your easy-going support!
D: Oda-sensei, Chopper is cute, so I want him as my pet! Huh? No way? Then - PLEASE MAKE ME NAMI'S PET.
O:Hey, what are you saying, you!! Ah! Excuse me, officer, you came at the right time. It's about this little pervert. Yes. He's causing trouble. Wee-oo-wee-oo... ah! No, I'm not - it's not me, really!!
D: Odacchi! ♥ Won't you come over tomorrow~?
O:Oh, alright - wait, WHERE?
D: Odacchi! DON'T WORRY.
O:Okay, thank you. I think even I can go and live a strong life.
D: What's the mark used by Magellan and the others in Impel Down? Is it "strength (力)"? What's this ← thing?
O:Oh, I got this question from Toei Animation too. If you look carefully at the mark on the armbands and collars of the soldiers, you'll notice that the insignia is slightly different, right? There are two different marks, but really, they share the same base. Both marks symbolize the "I" and "D" of Impel Down. They overlap like this:
And so you get this mark, and if you cut it differently you get this mark. It doesn't really matter, though.
D: Hello, Oda-sensei! I've been thinking about this for three days and three nights without sleeping, but - looking at your name, shouldn't your birthday would be the sixth of January? [Number-pronunciation logic: Ei-ichi-rou, where "ichi" is "one", and "ro" is the first syllable of "six".]
O:Yeah, that works. [Yes, this is a continuation of the long-running tradition of readers suggesting birthdays for characters based on their names. ...and, no, Odacchi's birthday isn't January 6. It's January 1 -N ]
D: "In Whereupon We Ask Odacchi A Question". [The letter writer is sounding like Sweet Pea, so this is my approximation of how Sweet Pea would sound like in English. It goes on through the letter. -N] Inside Sunny-go, there's a splendid bookshelf, isn't there? And in that bookshelf are "everyone except Luffy's books"! But! There's one person in the crew that I simply cannot imagine reading. And that is... Zoro. What sort of books could he possibly be reading? Please tell me!
O:It certainly does seem like books don't suit Zoro very well. But rather than reading books, you could say that he views them. Diagrams from books on martial arts, illustrations of weapons, collections of high-level bounties and so on. He looks at them.
D: Odacchi! Congratulations! They're doing another One Piece movie. But this time, it's your script, right? I'm really looking forward to it!! ...and, when I was watching the movie trailer on my computer I heard the word "Kinjishi" come up - but isn't that the flying pirate who broke out of jail 20 years ago that Sengoku mentioned in chapter 530!? There has to be some connection, right!?
O:Yes. "Kinjishi". Actually, I really wanted to have his name come up in the scene where Shirohige talks to Shanks in volume 45. But I thought at the draft level that I was handing out too much information and confusing the readers, so I took it away - but in my mind, I have determined that he is one of the legendary pirates who played a big part during Roger's time. Though I didn't think I'd make a movie about him. In any case, "Kinjishi" escaped from Impel Down, and now that 20 years have passed, he's finally starting to make a move, and that's what the movie is about. There's an announcement on page 192.
D: Would you like to be whipped by Sadi-chan together with me?Shimizu Chagero
O:What are you saying!!!? You bastard, are you back? A 21-year-old from Aichi! Excuse me, officer, this kid is a pervert. Nono, not me!! Eh? Why aren't you wearing panties?
D: When Oars fell down and the bridge was destroyed in volume 48, Franky repaired the bridge, but where does Franky keep his hammer (and stuff)? Please ask Franky!
O:Inside your briefs, right?
Franky:Yup.
It's the fourth seiyuu-SBS! The forth seiyuu! Let's start right away! This guy is really popular. Even though he's got real skills, and a long history as an actor, you can hardly understand it, because he acts so young - it's the master of Brave Sniper Usopp's Voice! He's actually a marvelous person in the world of voice acting - Yamaguchi Kappei-sanin the house!!
Oda: Yes, it's Kappei-san. Please introduce yourself.
Kappei: The splendid dramatizer! I'm in charge of Usopp-sama's beautiful voice~!
O: What's up with that style? "Dramatizer" - you mean "liar", right?
K: Not a liar! A dramatizer!
O: Alright, fine. So, do you know what SBS stands for?
K: Of course. (S)Feel free to take (B)Us in your staff as we're (S)Unemployed right now!
O: I've got no use for you.
K: That's horrible! We have no appearances now that we reached the Separation arc in the Anime
O: You're busy anyway, aren't you! And that's not the meaning of SBS!
K: It's not? Then what about something like (S)Let's (B)Start with a (S)Beer or (S)Let's (B)End it with a (S)Beer! That seems fine.
O: Do I look like a pub? Never mind. You don't want to get it right anyway. So, let's do this!
K:I'll work hard to defeat you with stupidity!! YEAH!
O: You're working hard in the wrong way!
K: Oh, I got it, SBS! It's (S)Let me (B)Make you (S)Really stupid!
O: STOP IT
D: I have a question for Yamaguchi Kappei-san. Please tell me what other seiyuus you really respect! And seriously, please. ♥
K: I'll answer seriously. Everyone of the Straw Hats. And, and Nozawa Masako-san and Master Kimotsuki Kaneta.
D: Is there any line in the script so far that Usopp (Yamaguchi Kappei-san) has really struggled with?
K: Indeed there is. "I'm a Nikyuu-human with the NikyuNikyu no mi"[Bartholomew Kuma's Devil Fruit. Literaly "meatball"]was difficult to say~ (distant eyes)---It's not even my own line!!!

D: Would you care to show me your panties?
K: Of course! (V-sign)
D: Hasn't Kappei-kun of the Yamaguchi family been a bit strange lately?
K: That's rude! He's always been strange!
D: When Usopp and Luffy had their big fight at Water Seven, did you really have a battle with Tanaka-san?
K: Well, we "pursue reality", so. The two of us had a fight like Master Ikeno Medaka~. (Okinawa style)
D: A direct question! What's the difference between a girl and a woman? And which one do you like best?
K: Of course I... Think I can answer that in a boy's magazine? >_< I like both. because I'm a man I support the male side and I like girls Because I'm an adult. Heh. ♥
D: I have a question! Which one is your type, Nami or Robin?
K: Well, I go for Kokoro-san...Gaah!!
D: Yamaguchi-san, hello! Please let me ask a question right away! What is the biggest lie you have ever told?
K:I never lie. ♥
D: Hello, Kappei-san. Please write "Nakai Kazuya" (Zoro's seiyuu) with kanji. And then please draw Usopp with your left hand.
K: That's 中井哉也, right? *The right answer is 中井和哉-san.
[The reader here wrote in under the pen name of "Jump Festa 2009 was fun!", and - yes. This was something that happened during the December Jump Festa last year.It's described somewhere in here. Kappeididmess up Nakai's name when they were writing them on balls of some kind for a game they were doing on the small stage. Ilovea good running gag. And it only gets funnier when it's at Nakai's expense.]
"I drew himー"↑
Usopp drawn with (Kappei's) left hand
D: Kappei-san!! Turn your back to us, and then turn around while chewing your right thumbnail...Sexy Pose! ♥
K: I took a picture, but it was too sexy, So the cameraman and the camera all turned to stone!"Mello-Mello-Mellow"~!
D: Hello! I have a question for Yamaguchi Kappei-san who plays the role of Usopp! Which is the most important of these "hons"[It means "book", but it's also the second kanji in "Nihon"=Japan -S]?
1. Script2. Japan 
3. Porn magazine
K: I guess it's 3-2-1 in that order. Because I'm an adult. ♥
D: For a voice actor with a distinct natural voice, are you easily recognized in private? I think you would be (especially by people who know you), but does it really happen that you're recognized?
K: Yeah. When I want to be recognized, I'm not.
O: ...When is that?
K: and when I don't want to be recognized, I am.
O: ...and when is that?
K: It's one of the mysteries of the human world.
D: Kappei-san, I love you!♥♥ Take this - rotten egg-star!
K: Aw, don't be so clingy... [He uses a word that means both "flirty" and "sticky" -S] 
(Wipes it off on Odacchi while talking)
O:Wah! What are you doing? It stinks... Well, Kappei-san, we're going to end here! But first, there's one final kid who wants to challenge you. Please stand tall and lend him your chest!
D: Kappei-san, let's have a Negative Battle!
K: Run away!!
O: He ran away! What freedom! Such amazing speed... Ah, he fell (laugh)... Eh? He flew... He's flying!! What's happening? Well, everyone, see you next volume! Hey~!
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 56.

D: Let's begin SBS... NOT!PN: Sun
O:So it's not beginning?
D: Oda-sensei! EMPORIO "WOMAN" HORMONE! Now - begin SBS~!PN: One of the Newkama
O:I WILL START~~ <3 SBS~~<3 UFu~~<3
D: Which squad of the Whitebeard Pirates is this guy commander of?PN: Tarou
(drawing of unknown character saying "which squad's commander was I again?")
O:This guy isn't in any of Whitebeard's squads, and of course he's not the commander of one? Tarou-kun. He's not in the Whitebeard Pirates at all? Tarou-kun.
D: Does the miracle worker of the okama world, Emporio Ivankov-san, havereal eyelashes? Orfake eyelashes? He can even do Death Wink, so is he using triple mascara? (by the way, even if I use double mascara on fake eyelashes, I still don't have enough power in my eyes ^^;)PN: I love Odacchi ?
O:It's real eyelashes. I've gotten a lot of letters asking if Death Wink is a kind of haki, but it's ablastthat is created bywinking.
D: Odacchi, help~! All of us who are going to take entrance exams but can't concentrate on studying - please tell us off! Seriously. A word to all of us taking entrance exams. Even though this isn't a question.Pen Name: Pote-chin
O:Read manga! Watch the movie (Strong World)! And study for all you're worth! You can have the cake and eat it, too!
D: I want to go to Disneyland! `_´Pen Name: Odacchi please take me there~ ?
O:Alright! Let's go for the rides! Blue Mountain! (-That was coffee)
D: Hello, Oda-sensei! Speaking of nothing, I discovered something, not about Inudesu* or Umadesu* , but about Sarudesu! If you look closely at Sarudesu's spear in the scene where he first appears in volume 54, there's something that looks like black holes or something at regular intervals, right?*It's a pun with Saldeath's name, which sounds like "Saru Desu" (I'm a monkey), as "Inu desu" means "I'm a dog", and "Uma desu" means "I'm a horse".
Keep reading from there, and in the panel under the panel that explains Mr 2's ability, there's a scene where Sarudesu is holding his spear, but somehow it seems he's holding it to his mouth! In other words, is Sarudesu's spear a flute, and does he use its sound to control the blugoris?Pen Name: Morning Musume at full cuteness
O:That's right. Well done noticing. If I write the battle scenes too detailed, the story will come to a stop, and that's no fun, so stuff like that easily gets showed away to the corners of the panels in this series. But that's right, Sarudesu's spear becomes a flute that controls the blugoris!
D: I have a question for Odacchi. Why do the residents of Newkama Land wear net stockings? And, do you like net stockings? Please tell me.Pen Name: Mosako
O:Well, it doesn't matter if I like them or not, but I'm the kind of person who wear nothing but net stockings and fur coats while drawing comics. As for why the people in Kama Land wears net stockings, it's because they're there. It's just like how mountain climbers climbs mountains just because they're there.
D: Does Nyon-baa also have a butt-butt chin?Pen Name: Gon-chan
O:You're right - that's true! She's got a butt-butt chin just like Franky! I wonder if she can shoot a Coup du Vent?
D: Oda-sensei. On the cover of volume 54, you say that people can basically live to be 140, but is Kureha alright?Pen Name: O-baka-san
O:Ah, right. Now that you mention it, she's 139, isn't she? Well, if we say that the limit for a normal person is 140 years, she's still superhuman, in the sense that she goesbeyondother people. So she'll be fine. Also, old people who will die in a year do not walk around in the snow with bare midriffs.
D: I just realized this, but even though you always listen to all sorts of wishes from your readers, you never publicly ask for a new character design, or ask us to think up a new Devil Fruit that will appear in the series? If I could make one... Hmm... A "Diarrhea Fruit" (gerigeri no mi) or a "Stomach Growl Fruit" (buriburi no mi)? A Stomach Growl Fruit eater whose stomach works perfectly, wouldn't that be cool?Pen Name: Scorpius girl
O:Not cool at all! That's just a normal healthy person!! ...right, I don't ask for suggestions. And I won't. I don't need them. This might sound a bit cold, but I don't want other people's ideas... The editors and people at Jump sometimes change, but every time there is a new one, the first thing I tell them is to not give me suggestions. I want to have the confidence to say that I thought up all the people and the entire story by myself! If I rely on people once, I might keep doing it, and if it's a failure, I'll blame it on them. But if I succeed, it's because of my own ability, and if I fail, it's my own fault. I like that. Although I might want ideas on things that has nothing to do with the main story... Like the covers with Straw Hats and animals. I'd love to get ideas for those. If you write "I'd like to see this animal and this person do something" on a scrap of paper for me, I'd love to draw that!
D: Nice to meet you. I was thinking while looking at Iva-chan that I'd like to see genderswapped versions of the Straw Hats. You don't think you could draw them for me? Please do it .Pen Name: TOMO. M
The Straw Hats genderswapped.
O:Sure. They become different.
Luffy:I'll eat salad and become the Pirate Queen!
Zoro:Three swords? I can't, that'd break my teeth.
Nami:I'm asking ya - who's the navigator on this ship?
Usopp:I think I'll die if I go to that island.
Sanji:I only do sweets.
Chopper:Mr. Doctooor! Oh, that's me!
Robin:That was cruel yo.
Franky:Am I super this week?
Brook:?
[note: Except for Luffy (partly), Zoro and Sanji, they all say their own catchphrases, but modified to be extremely feminine/masculine.]
D: The thing that got to me this time was when, in in the 4th panel on page 5 of chapter 526, Luffy emerges after getting into Impel Down... but no matter how I look at it, it seems that doesn't come out of Hancock'scape, but from herskirt! What's the truth? It's getting to me so much that on the geography test, I wrote "Laboon" instead of "Lagoon"! What are you going to do about that?Pen Name: The Sacred Ground inside the Skirt
O:I can't take responsibility for the test, but of course Luffy wasn't hiding in the cape, but in the skirt... or more directly, in that china dress. If he didn't, the cape would just bulge over him, and he'd be discovered immediately? He was clinging directly to Hancock under her clothes - hey hey! Stop imagining weird things like that! Oh dear. The two of them were serious! If they were discovered, they'd be killed...! Ah, a nosebleed.
D: If a tanuki and a reindeer got married, would their child be Chopper?Pen Name: Sugacchi
O:Yes, it would. Definitely. Oh, the nosebleed? That's, well, I fell over. Yes, I fell.
D: Oda-raoshii . I'm sure you're going to say "There was a guard room nearby where the prisoners' private clothes were being stored, and he went there and got his clothes and cigars back. Well done, Crocodile! He's so sensitive about appearances." ...or some reply like that, but I'm still going to ask. When he was freed in chapter 540, Crocodile was wearing a prisoner's uniform, so why is he wearing his own clothes and smoking a cigar the next time he shows up?Pen Name: Aohige
O:You almost know already!! But I'm still going to answer. The prisoners' personal belongings are put in some place for storage, and since the people of Kama Land steal from there, they have a lot of different clothes. Cigars and other stuff, too. I skipped drawing it, but Luffy and the others did go back to Kama Land briefly, so he got it from someone there.
D: Is there something inside Hannyabal's chin? DREAMS?Pen Name: Sappiina
O:Yup. That's right. Ambitions called dreams.
D: Nice to meet you, Oda-sensei. I have a question. If One Piece was set in the real world, which countries would the nine Straw Hats come from?Pen Name: MICHAEL JACKSONS' BROTHER
O:Well. I'll just put what fits with the character's image.
D: The sound effect of Iva-chan's Death Wink is "[ba]choon"!!! "[Ba]choon"!!! Odacchi! Teach me how to pronounce it!?Pen Name: Straw Hat Mafui
O:You have good eyes! You're right! It's not just a "?"! It has three dots. A regular "ba" just won't capture the destructive sound of that wink, so I made it up. In the beginning, the staff didn't notice, so they'd erase one of the dots, but I complained. It's "[ba]choon". It's easy to pronounce. Just pronounce "ba" with enough force to spit at least three grains of saliva. So! All together now! [Ba]choon"!! [Ba]choon"!! Mmm!
And that's why SBS ends here! This time we're taking a break from seiyuu SBSs, but instead we offer a huge movie feature! SBS will be back next volume!
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 57.

O: Ok, I will start SBS!! Let's all say it!! YEA~~H!!
D: Oda sensei, Morningello. (good morning and hello) Actually, my friend Shouta (or Person S) likes Kana (or person K). But, Kana is going out with a different person. What should he do~~?P.N. D hosokawa (14)
O: I see. HOW WOULD I KNOWWWW!!!YEAH~~!!
D: Hey Odacchi! Questio~n. Is the former Baroque Works member Mr. 1's testicles also a steel blade? I wonder so much x2 that I can't sleep!!by Niwacchi in 8th grade
O: OK!!! THEN DON'T SLEEP!!!!YEAHHH!!!!!
D:
"did'ya call?" -Emperor Mitchel
P.N. Daichan of the forest
O: Ah, good work! You're the Emperor Mr. Mitchel! Yes yes, Whitebeard, Red Hair, Kaidou, Mitchel, really, they're superior. just saying~... GO HOME!! (shock)YEAH!! breathe... breathe.. ugh, no more stamina. From now on, I will talk normally.
D: Eiichirou.. YOU'VE GROWN SO MUCH...P.N. acting like a good guy
O: ... oh well. This page is... oh well. I will work harder on the next SBS! Oh, and the movie "STRONG WORLD". Thanks to you all, it became a huge hit that happened never before. Thanks for watching guys, really. I will work hard on ONE PIECE from now on as well!
D: It's a wonder how Luffy is always eating, yet he never becomes fat. I'm real jealous.P.N. A thousand varaeties 10422
O: No no, how ever much you eat, I think it would be hard for a guy that moves around so much to become fat.
D: This is a question, but Luffy and his crew always seem to say "I'll beat him up" or something along those lines when they defeat a villain, right? Accurately, I don't think any enemies died. When the way of saying "kill" or "crush" is not used here, is it because they never kill their opponents? Is this some kind of policy?P.N. Tochitsuki
O: It has publication reasons. There was a phone call from my granny in my hometown, and she said that "it ain't good to use words sayin' that someone will kill the other". It's obvious Luffy and his crew don't use it, but I think as for the enemies, that's just.. too bad. It is the mature me that thinks it is really bad word usage when a friend of mine dies from time to time. Well, as for the running gags and theevilllvillains, it is used, but I use it thinking "oh, this is a bad thing to say." Don't use it, everyone.
D: Is the weapon Urouge holding a pencil? Or is it a "chocobat"?P.N. Fluffy #1
O: Well, it's a pencil. Still, did he set sail in order to find a sharpener it fits in? (Is the lead in it 2B?)
D: As representative of the Kita Kantou, I came to beg you this. Please make Whitebeard's birthday 4(shi)/6(ro). (Shiro means white)P.N. Gunma's super rich guy
O: Alright then.
D: Odacchi! Hi! This is a serious question. Tell me your typical day's schedule!!!
O: A serious question, I see! Here it is ↓
Everyone who wants to be a mangaka, use it as a reference!
D: I saw this and laughed my head off, but in volume 55, chapter 537, Hannyabal's panties have strawberries on them don't they? Does Hannyabal like those kinds of cute panties? If so, what other kinds does he have?
O: I compliment you on cracking the case of Hannyabal's evil hobby. I hear Hannyabal's panty collection is amazing.
D: Konchikuwa-! (Combination of "konnichiwa";hello; and "chikuwa"; a japanese food) I'm a female ☆ Ah!! I love chikuwas. By the way, I want to ask something!! Are Inazuma's glasses (← sunglasses??) 3D glasses??? Since the colors are different, I thought like "Hum?!"... If they aren't 3D, won't the colors mix and make it hard for him to see? Tell me ~ =3P.N. Masaking
O: I see~ ! Maybe -? Maybe. Then, he can see as many 3D movies as he wishes, huh. But do everyday things pop out as well? Like every time he sees a kid standing on the street, he would say "don't run on the road!" or something. When he sees Wanze, he would be like "your eyes are popping out way too much!". Oh, he doesn't need 3D glasses to see that. .... yeah, they are 3D glasses, probably.
O: Game corner!! A flashy game from P.N. pass'emmdowns! Thank you! Ok, see who's hat it is! Answer on pg. 170!
D: If Hancock meets me, will she fall in love with me?P.N. Hokkaido horse
O: You're Hannyabal!! I know it for sure!! (Oda states this since P.N Hokkaido Horse speaks in a way Hannyabal does in Japanese.)
D: Here's a question all the sudden. Are the models of the 3 marine admirals
...? If not, I apologize. If so and there is an answer, please tell us!P.N. Marimo
O: Yes, yes. All of them are correct. The people these days probably don't know. All three guys are real famous actors of Japan. Why you ask, this is simply because I like them. For Mr. Bunta Sugawara, I want to use his face from the movie "Battles Without Honor and Humanity", but his face is somewhat covered with a hat... just think it was for myself and don't mind it. Even if you don't know him, it's OK as long as you think of him as a "cool" guy. (He also has a voice actor role in "Spirited Away".)
D: In page 183 of volume 55, when Bon-chan is spinning, he turns into Pandaman for a second, but did Bon-chan ever touch Pandaman's face before?Pen Name "Man who ate the Gari-Gari no mi" (skinny skinny fruit)
O: Oh! You're right! He is there. Really, for a split second! Which means, you are right. I wonder where they met. As expected from Bon-chan.
D: Sometimes, we see the appearance of humans and giants with horn like things, but in this world, are horns basically something sorta like buck teeth?P.N. Wozapomu
O: Yep, they're there. Guys that look unbelievably non-human here and there. Well, I guess. Don't think much about those traits. I look forward on drawing more and more interesting faces.
D: When my friend and I were discussing about ONE PIECE, we found out about something. That is the fact that Oda sensei, you never refer to Luffy and the others as "The Straw Hat Pirates" or "The Luffy Pirates". As far as I can remember, you've always called them "The Straw Hats". Is this another one of your policy type things?P.N. Policuu-
O: Oh ho-. Here it comes again. Deducing my policy action. Yes. You're correct. Anime or games, readers, I don't care what people call them. Call'em whatever. I decided to call them "Straw hats", so I won't call them anything else. Magnificent.
D: I also have a mushroom that won't come off me. Could the Kuja tribe take it off for m- hm?! Oda sensei, it seems to me you have one growing on you? Wanna come with me??P.N. Shimizu Chagero
O: That is your testicles. P.N. Shimizu Chagero. That is... Ah, I used such disgraceful words... I'll use astricks? (asterisks). THAT'S YOUR T*STICLES, CHAGEBURO!! T*STICLES!!!
so from page 188, Voice actor SBS will activate!!
O: H.D.K!! (Hai, Domo, Konnichiwa ; Hi, Greetings, Hello) The 5th voice actor SBS is coming up!! This time, who is it, dammit- !! Yes!! Our precious perverted cook! SANJI'S VOICE'S OWNER!! If he shuts up, he's a hot guy. Hiroaki HirataIN THE HOUSE!!
O: Now, everyone, the guy that never betrays our expectations, Hirata san is here -!
H:Yo, sorry for making y’all wait! Finally my turn has come around ~ ♪ Hallelujah to the wonderful ladies! Me~llorine Mellorine, Nami-san are you looking at meeee ~~? I'm in the SBS right n- *punch* bubedagasu...
O: !!! ..eh.. he said "bubedagasu"... What does that mean.
H:Eh, uh isn't this a quote you wrote?!
O: Was it now? I don't recall-. Well, these are the postcards, so let's start the SB-
H:wait wait wait wait! Wait! You know, the thing you always do. That. You know i've been reading? This corner. "What does SBS stand for?" Aren't you gonna ask?!
O: I don't care about that anymore. You all only think of making it a joke. ....Ah- it got gloomy in here... Alright, then what does SBS stand for?
H:Ehhh~~?! (smirk smirk) It's not polite to suddenly ask those kinds of things you know~ ? (smirk smirk) Geez~~ even if you ask me so suddenly ~. Ehehe.
O: I bet you didn't even think of anything... Hurry up now.
H:(G)omen (I)ino ga (O)moiukaban! (Sorry, a suitable joke does not occur to me!)
O: I WAS SO FRICKIN' RIGHT~~!!! (shock) It's SBS!!!
The rest of Hirata-san's SBS is on P 206!! ↓
D: I think that Hirata-san, you are combined with Sanji in both mental terms and physical term, but what do you think Sanji's sacred left eye looks like? Please make a drawing.P.N. My bust size is 92 cm <3
H:
D: MR. HIRATA, WHAT PART OF YOU IS CURLY?P.N. Tamaki
H: P**IS.
D: Sanji is an amaze~ing cook, but I heard that you can cook as well! Is it true you're good at making peperonchinos?! Please tell me your best recipe~ <3P.N. Udon store
H: My peperonchinos are super spicy. In the past , there were about 3 people who ate it... Am~~ en~~. My curry and gyoza are good too♪
D: LOVE... FEELINGS.. WHAT ARE THESE?P.N. jangigman
H: A swee~t ordeal!
D: Mr. Hirata, are you also perverted like Sanji? How do you interact with your fellow voice actor friends? ....Ah, before you answer, ...take this!! NEGATIVE HOLLOW!!P.N. Hero of the brave
H: Gwah!...I...I'm sorry i'm unable to act perverted toward Miss Mayumi (Luffy's voice).....
D: PLEASE MARRY ME <3 I'm wayy cuter than Nami-san or Robin-chan, you know? If it were for the sake of Sanji's seiyū, i'd do anything <3P.N. Dylka
H: H~m sorry, a little too late...
D: Do you know what "ZORO" is?by you wouldn't like a wife <3
H: Sorry, I'm not good at foreign languages...does it mean "Fart"?
D: Hello Hirata-san. Nakai-san (Zoro's voice actor) said "I don't peek at the ladies' bath. Since i'm mature." but if it were you, you would definatley look, wouldn't you?!P.N. curlycurly beam
H: Shhhhh! Be quiet! I'm in the ladies' bath right now!
D: Right now in front of you, there's a MAN with an hourglass formed perfect body (with the family jewels), and a person with a super dandy face, yet has a body that's 100% WOMAN!! Hirata-san, which would you pick?! There as a man, it's THAT ONE, right?! huh?! This one?! This?!!!
H: Hmmmmm, well, THAT TOO.
D: If you didn't have a job as a voice actor, please tell me what job you would've wanted.P.N. Lover of the phrase Thanks for taking care of me for so damn long
H: A train driver. Or a mangaka that can do voice acting too ♪
D: Wai-t! Brother Hirata-! Phew, thank goodness, I made it.. ha... ha.. Here, the PORN BOOK I borrowed from you. Byebye-♪P.N. Yuccho
H: You're so late, I also borrowed this from someone!! He-y, NAKAI KUN, sorry for returning this late.
D: Ah- Mr. Hiroaki Hirata, it's a cooking battle- how's that- It's a cockroach/mouse super dish-!! Want some?P.N. Queen getting hurt too much
H: Wha~t? Then this time I'll have Mr. Cho- (Brook's voice actor)'s bone soup with Mr. Yao (Franky's V.A.), Nakai (Zoro's V.A.), and Kappe- (Usopp) in it!! It smells like alcohol and fart so ¥8000!
D: I love you Mr. Hirata! Pay for stealing my heart <3 "EMPORIO FEMALE HORMONE"!!! (Please whisper to me if it's big breasts or little <3)P.N. Death wink works man
H: STOP! NOO THIS IS TOO EMBARRASSING-!! I HAVE A BIG TUMMY!! BIG TUMMY!!
O: Ah, Mr. Hirata, it's almost time; you should wrap it u-...GYAAAHH!! TOO SCARY~~!!! (shock)
H:KYAAAAA----!!!
O: gyaa~ let's meet in the next volume~
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 58.

D: My SBS starts now! Ah! I let my ambition show.P.N. Hanko
O: You call that ambition, it's already fulfilled! >_< It started.
D: When does Whitebeard use the boomerang he's got under his nose?P.N. Chiichan
Stefan.
O: Hmmm, well... Maybe when he's in the park with his dog..."So! Go and get it! Stefan!" *runrunrun* "Woof?""It's not a frisbee, so it's coming back! Gurarararara!"...or what!?
D: I have a question. Can you put bananas in Whitebeard's mustache? Is it a banana pocket?P.N. Samusamu
O: That's right... If you open the zipper on the back side, bananas will come out. If you line them up in single file, 3 fits on the right side and 3 on the left side, so 6 is the total capacity, I guess... "Men! Time for battle! Have bananas! Gurararara!" What do you guys think of Whitebeard, really?
D: Hello, Oda-sensei! I have a question. Is Whitebeard, Edward Newgate, a Logia or a Paramecia? I personally think he's Logia, since he took Aokiji's attack without turning to ice, but...?P.N. NY
O: I guess that's difficult. The answer isParamecia. "Gura Gura no Mi" is considered as one of the most powerful paramecia fruits. It's easy to think that he's an "Earthquake Human" and must beLogia, but if that was so, he'd have to become an earthquake himself. Whitebeardcreatesearthquakes, in other words he's a "Tremor Human". That means he's a Paramecia who isn't any weaker than the Logias.
D: GRRR.P.N. Hosokawa
O: Eh? Wasn't that the growl of a beast? It... it was, wasn't it? Wah.... Wah.... Waaaaaaaaaaaah! Right, let's go to the next one.

D: Even though I'm 28 years old, I think of One Piece every day, all the time, even at work. I want to ask a question - in the One Piece artbook, Robin's face is shown appearing on the back of Chopper's head, but when would she use that? I couldn't help laughing when I saw it.P.N. Tony Tony Chappy
O: I see. Well, in the bonus corner of the color illustration collection, there are a few pages where I present some original setting notes, and that picture shows up there. Actually, that was for the scene in the "Sky Island" arc where Robin has to carry her unconscious crewmate. I was thinking that she'd put her face, arms and legs on them to move them smoothly, but that turned out so disturbing that I didn't go with it. If you like it, I might use it some other time~
D: Oda-sensei, hello! I've been wondering about this for a while now - why does Ace have freckles? My mother called him "that freckle guy". Isn't that horrible?P.N. Rihosuke
O: Speaking of the freckles, my staff tell each other to be careful because there's a pretty good chance that I forget those. This is an acknowledged fact (I forget them about 92% of the time), but it doesn't matter. It probably doesn't matter to Ace either. See, there's an old saying that goes like this: "Don't mind the freckles!" Yup. Youngsters who don't recognize it should ask their mother or father.
D: Odaaaaaaaaaaachi! This is your task! Tell me how old all of the Seven Warlords of the sea aaaaaaaaaaaare!P.N. Jichael Mackson
D: I have a question for Odacchi! If you look at the Warlords on page 172-173 of volume 56, it seems they are all very tall. So please tell me how tall all of the Warlords are!P.N. Keita
O: I get it. Age and height, right? I'm including Crocodile, so here are the 8 of them, in height order.
Moria: 48 years old, 692cmKuma: 45 years old, 689cmTeach: 38 years old, 344cmDoflamingo: 39 years old, 305cmJinbe: 44 years old, 301cmCrocodile: 44 years old, 253cmMihawk: 41 years old, 198cmHancock: 29 years old, 191cm
D: Odacchi! Helloooooes! I know this is a bit sudden, but please go ahead and tell me the Three Sizes of Hancock-sama!P.N. Iichan of the first squad of the Amoeba Pirates
D: Odacchi~! This is the first time I send a letter! There's one thing I've been wanting to ask for a long time... What cup size are Hancock's breasts? (I'm hoping they're about J-cup).P.N. Erogappa
O: Right. I presented these two together. You perverted monsters! P.N. Erogappa-kun in particular adds a message that he always enjoys my work together with his whole family. To his father and mother: Your son sent me a postcard like this! He's a pervert! ...anyway, I asked Sanji, and here I present the Snake Princess' Three Sizes! Bust: 111! Waist: 61! Hip: 91! Mmm~marvelous! ♥♥And as for the cup size, Erogappa said he hoped it was J-cup, so it's J-cup! ♥I'm sorry, parents!
D: Oda-sensei~! There's a person who promised to marry me if this was published in SBS, so please publish it. ♥ Odacchi, please make me happy ♥♥P.N. Michibatake Shou--
O: Of course. I've published it. To her boy: Keep your promises!
D: No pleasantries, but I have a question. In volume 57, chapter 556, behind Tsuru-san, there are several pirates being hung out to dry like laundry. Who hung them out to dry? Tsuru-san? I'm also curious about why. Please explain in the accent of the recently very active 3-niisan ga ne!P.N. Papa-chan of two children
O: They're definitely being hung out to dry ga ne~! There is no question that this is the work of Tsuru, Marine Vice Admiral ga ne~! She has eaten the "Wash Wash fruit"! She's a "Laundry Human" ga ne! She can wash anything, and villains who have been dried get their hearts a little bit cleaner as well - they say that their evil hearts become fainter - so that's a dangerous ability against pirates ga ne! Be careful ga ne~!!
D: Hello for the first time, Odacchi! I have a question that is 10% serious. There are people who gets published in the Usopp Gallery Pirates over and over again, aren't there? So does that mean that you're not actually choosing these pictures?? Or are you not choosing them carefully? It's extremely suspicious! Answer with exactly three lines!P.N. Sweet Strawberry
O: I do choose them carefully! ....oh, that didn't even take a single line. I'll explain properly. For every volume, me, Yokoyama-san who is in charge of the tankoubons, and chairman Usopp have a meeting between the three of us where we think it over and choose which pictures to publish. I think of these pages as being created by me together with the artists who entertain the readers. Having a picture published isn't the goal - I want your published pictures to entertain the readers. Art should be born to entertain.That's why I'll publish someone over and over if they're good. On the other hand, I won't give anyone the prize twice. It's always fun to choose pictures.
D: Oda-sensei, hi~! I really want to know this, so could you please tell me the names and squad numbers of all of Whitebeard's divison commanders?P.N. Semaru
O: Right. There were a lot of questions about things within the war this time! But remember, I'm only answering this because I was asked, and there's no need to remember anything that I supplement in an SBS. The information that I don't include in the main series are the parts that I decided would just confuse readers, so please just enjoy the SBS as a bonus. Anyway, here are the divison commanders of the Whitebeard Pirates.
Whitebeard Pirates Captain -Edward Newgate
Division Commanders:
D: I've recently started to emit "haki". My friends are falling over one by one. What should I do?P.N. Nenga Otoko ("New Year Boy")
O: I see. That's pretty fantastic~ If it's the Haki of Kings, you'll have to learn to control it, or I feel sorry for the friends around you. There's another possibility - it's not impossible that your body is so smelly that your friends are falling over. In that case, take a bath.
D: There's something I want to ask you, so I brought a ballpen. Is it just me, or isn't Emporio Ivankov a lot like Doctor Frank-n-Furter in "Rocky Horror Show"?P.N. I love Yuu-kun ♥ Takashi
O: Yes, that's right. "Rocky Horror Show" is a movie that everyone who knows B-Horror knows about, and I can't help but love it - it's the model for the entire Kama-land. Or that's what it looks like, but there's actually one more model for Ivankov. A real okama who made me want to write more okama characters after I had created Bon-chan! I first met him in the theater where Luffy's seiyuu Tanaka Mayumi works, and - wow,powerful! His name is "Imamura Norio"-san, but I thought his face looked so much like a rock, so I mistakenly remembered it as "Iwamura" (iwa = rock), and then I started calling him "Iva-san". What surprised me even more was that Imamura-san, who knew he was the model for Iva-san, went to the seiyuu audition for the anime and brilliantly scored his part. In other words, the real okama who inspired the creation of Iva-san, Imamura Norio-san, is right now playing the part of Iva-san in the TV anime. He'spowerful!
D: I went to study medicine, because I admire Chopper. Eh? What? You don't believe me? It... it's true. I admire Chopper who takes care of his friends in a professional way, it-it's really not because I want to have a look at Nami's body, really!P.N. Shimizu Chagero
O: P.N. Shimizu Chagero! It's you! When were you released from prison? Um! Excuse me, officer! Could you please arrest this kid? He's a pervert who always upsets the moral discipline of SBS! (See volume 55) If a someone like him became a doctor, there would be all sorts of horribly perverted incidents! ...eh? What? I'm not like that! Huh? ....why can't I be naked under my coat!? >_<
D: Hello for the first time, Oda-sensei. I've read all the previous 57 volumes, and I was thinking, I don't quite understand how "Phoenix Marco"'s Zoan fruit of the "legendary beast" kind is different from Ace's "Meramera" fruit.P.N. CNY
O: Yeah, I know... I've omitted the explanation from this war arc, because I focused on the pacing and wanted to move the story forward. To explain Marco's ability just a little bit: he's Zoan, so he does have a body. But since he's got "the blue fire of revival" - the Phoenix's ability - wounds will regenerate, so attacks will not damage him (though there's a limit to the regeneration). In other words, the flames are for regeneration. These blue flames don't have the characteristics of actual fire - they don't spread and burn things, and they aren't hot. They're completely different from Ace's flames. I might touch on this in the main story at some point, so I'll leave it at this for now.
D: Oda-sensei, you often seem to say some rather... perverted? things (I'm sorry ^^;). Don't your wife have anything to say about it? If not, she must be the perfect mangaka wife. I'm touched. Really.P.N. 12-year-old girl
O: It's okay, because I say even weirder things at home!Alright, my SBS ends here!
O: H.D.K.!! (Hey, Domo, Konnichiwa) Number...what was it? umm, sixth! the sixth voice actor SBS!! Let it start-! This time we have a "you're doing all the real cute japanese mascots' voices?!" kind of person who is super good at acting flashily plus is actually small and cute herself! Our beloved doctor CHOPPER'S VOICE'S OWNER! the shorty IKUE OTANI in the house!
O: Kay' guys ya ready?? lets have her introduce herself-! its Miss Otani!
I (Ikue Otani): yo
O: THAT WAS SHORT!! that surprised me!!
I: Hey Odacchi, isn't there no "short" in introducing yourselves?
O: You're very right. sorry. I feel bad.
I: YOU SHOULD!!
O: Well anyway, this is a corner called SBS. what does it stand for?
I: I know~(S) Saishyo wa guu (B) Bikuri Jankenn (S) Sore wa naani?(first is rock, surprising rockpaperscissors, what is that?)
O: I WANNA KNOW! *shock* you don't know, huh? then... here's a hint. We.. TAKE IN..QUESTIONS... you know? (question=Shitsumon, take in =Boshuu)
I: Oh! I see, I got it!(S) Sugoiyo (B) Bikkuri (S) Sakura no ki(woahh, shock!, cherry blossom tree)
O: I'M THE ONE WHO'S SHOCKED!!...I...I don't care anymore...
D: Miss Otani, do you voice the huge Chopper as well?P.N. Karen-
I: YES, I DO. Although I don't do the Chopper who has gone berserk, I do all other "Choppers".
D: Hello, nice to meet you!!! When Chopper becomes big, do you become big as well??? since reality is you guys' motto??P.N.Mashuli-
I: Ah, no. I'm always big. I do small Chopper, so I usually shrink a lot. SINCE REALITY IS OUR MOTTO.
D: Hey, so after all, which is bigger, brain point Chopper or you?P.N. Funako
I: WHAAAAT--!!! IS THAT REALLY WHERE YOU'RE SUPPOSED TO THINK-??
D: Miss Otani!! Is it true that you put jam on everything?P.N. Miho-nn
I: Yes, I DO.
D: Hello Ikue Otani—Question: out of all the voice actors you work w/ in One Piece, who are you bestest friends with? or, pleeease tell me the actor you think is the funniest?☆P.N. Eikichi
I: well, thats a hard question--. Funny is our captain. really, how does she come up with these tricks?
D: What is the new move you think of for Chopper?P.N. Redbeard
I: DOCTER'S STOP!
D: ARE YOU ALSO A "7 FORMATION HUMAN"?P.N. Donmai
I: Ah- yeah- basically.
D: Please try to draw Chopper's hat without looking at anything. Of course you can, right?P.N. Donmai
I:(It says "Huh? Just the hat was good enough?")
D: If you ate 3 rumble balls, what would happen? Please draw it.P.N. Chappy-
I:(It says "Like this" and "Normal Sailor ↓")
D: Miss Otani I always get calmed with your sweet voice! and to that wonderful Miss Otani, TAKE THIS! COTTONCANDY ATTACK!P.N. Captain Chopper
I: UG. MUNCHMUNCH. Do it again!- <3
D: To chopper ☆ーfix my love sickness! -!!P.N. Sugacchi
I: Ok I'll try. but first, find me.
D: When Chopper is surprised, his antlers fly off, but when you are, what flies?P.N. MASA
I: My heels.
D: Miss Otani! take this—NEGATIVE HOLLOW! (sorry out of the blue)P.N. Perona IV
I:Even though I eat a lot, I'm sorry I can't become big...
D: Miss Ikue Otani. I always watch "TV"!! Chopper's voice is just too cyuteee <3 I often copy chopper's voice. Miss Ikue, how do you make his voice? do you have any advice on becoming good at voicing?P.N. Sis of Pepper
I: If you have "manly" as your motto, anyone can voice him.
D: Miss Otani, I'll say this very clearly. PLEASE GIMMIE YOUR VOICE!P.N. ToNAKAI
I: OK, HERE-<3
O: Miss Otani, it's about time-! Good job.....huh? Hey, did your voice change?? Hmm? You gave your voice to P.N. ToNAKAI?! Uhhh- this is a problem...!! Ah, then ToNAKAI person..., from next week, can you be voice actor for Chopper?! Aright, OK!!(OK?!) The voice actor SBS! ON NEXT VOLUME~!! Miss Otani doesn't have a job now~!
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 59.

D: Hello Oda Sensei. you can borrow One Piece at libraries you know--. Even if it's not in the nearest library, you can use the internet to search for it in your area and borrow it--. Even if there isn't One Piece in the area, you can actually request it by saying "I want One Piece". Now even little kids can read it for free. OK, starting SBS--. P.N. Honokani
O: Gasp!! Hey it started all easily!! That startled me-!! I heard. Yet still, there's manga in libraries?! ohhh.. That's I don't know, first time I heard this stuff. Manga in libraries?! Well uh, I guess this is a chance for little ones without money. To the nearest library, Let's go--! Speaking of free, check out the ONE PIECE WEB while you're at it.
D: Odatz!!(so old...)Stay there. put down your porn books too! Ah- about the incident of ol' Garp's disappearing scar, the (bored) me has counted up to volume 58 and... 25 TIMES!! (BAM!) is the exact number. even though he doesn't appear often... sometimes it disappears dynamically. Humans make mistakes, huh? Well I see you don't have the will to apologize, so I'll take these ♥books♥ as a punishment. P.N. Shimeji SP
O: AND TO BE EXACT... if an enemy he hates is around... his scar tingles.. and floats up. I guess? If normally there is no scar, and just at times like that, it tingles and comes up... WHAT WOULD YOU DO?! >:( In other words, maybe the scarless Garp is his true form right? (although nowhere does it say that in the truth). Anyway, you shall give those books back, you. GIVEBACK! I'll be carefull from now on so GIVEBACK!!
D: WHO YA CALLIN' FOUREYED by coveredinfire
O: Okay, as if nothing happened, to the next postcard we go.
D: Hello Oda Sensei~! Out of the blue but can you write what is inside luffy's head? oh and your head too--. my friend's head is half pervert and half games. P.N. SO ODA SENSEI'S HEAD IS FULL OF PORN AFTER ALL?!
O: What, you mean like those inner brain things on the internet? Like that? Then I'll scope everyone else's brain as well.
Luffy: meat meat meat meat kingZoro: sword sword strength strength strengthNami: money money money money beautyUsopp: warrior lies lies run runSanji: women food food nami robinChopper: doctor medicine sweet trust beastRobin: learn learn history old secretFranky: weird weird weird weird ironBrook: panties panties laugh tea teaOda: world peace
And so the word "friendship" is in everyone's soul deep down.
D: About the Whitebeard Pirates, if there are pirates from the "Whitebeard ally groups", is there a possibility of one of them becoming a commander of the real Whitebeard Pirates itself? Or are the commanders all from the real Whitebeard Pirates from the beginning? P.N. amanuts
O: Ok, I'll explain a little about the Whitebeard Pirates. First, captain Whitebeard and the 16 commanders. All 16 commanders, despite numbers and ages have the same rank. All the same. Whitebeard Pirates are just split in 16 groups and the division number does not indicate strength. The 43 ally pirate ships are not any part of the Whitebeard Pirates and are usually all just scattered everywhere living their own little lives. Yet they are loyal to Whitebeard, and help him in desperate times. They are like that. In Ace's case, the Spade Pirates were destroyed, and all the members joined the Whitebeard Pirates, so he was able to become a commander.
D: Ciao!! About the cover of volume 58, thanks to your words, I am now known as the "Year of the Human-Eating Rabbit"and "The Demonic Goat Capricorn, Who Swallows Anacondas Whole"... how are you gonna pay for this--?? (angry) P.N. herbivore rabbit
O: Oh dear. I see, so in other words, it's a "since you were born as a rabbit year capricorn, your reputation was made up by some guy you don't even know" kinda thing, huh? And yet, you don't like the one i thought of. Well since there's no choice, I shall come up with a reputation for your year and horoscope with full responsibility. I hope you like it. "Capricorn thinking of dirty things at a factory observation".
D: Hello. (' V ')_I'm a Bob Dylan fan of 18 years. I think it wasChapter 572, but that title.... It's that famous song's title by Bob Dylan! When I saw this, I really was surprised. Odacchi, do you also like Bob Dylan??-- Anyhow, the title matches the story, so I am happy with it!! (laugh) P.N. Bob Dylan always cheers me up.
O: Yess. That is right. I did something only fans would notice. Bob Dylan is a super star of America, and though i don't really know about him much, I knew this title so I kinda just borrowed it. In the Jump magazine, it was all in English, but as I thought, readers would be confused by this. I put a translation below in the actual volume.
O: M.K.K. corner~~! (Matomete Kakatte Koi; Come all at once) Yes yes, it has started~!! jeez--, You all. How many times do you want to mess with the characters' birthdays!! And there has to be a good reason or I won't approve these things too easily. Come at me!!
D:About Law's birthday, how is 10 (trafalgar) 6 (law) for 10/6? P.N. hamchi-
O: Sure.
D: Please, for my favorite one piece character, Blackbeard Marshall D. Teach, for the yami yami fruit, can his birthday be 8(ya)/3(mi)? I wanted to make it myself but how is it?
O: Sure.
D: Sensei, listen! some time ago, a newbie in our workplace said he doesn't know Marco's birthday! (Madness) 10/5 (1st division commander 05 (maru co)) is just too easy to remember too! Right, sensei? By Whitebeard nurse type karte type marnyamu <3
O: Uh.. yeah, I thought so. Yes... It's right.
D: Crocodile's birthday should be 9/5 for 9(cu)ro 5(co)dile, don't you think!! When you make birthdays, you're always so gloomy, so answer after getting Emporio Ivankov's tension hormones. From ultimate
O: HEE~~HAW~~!! THATS GOOD!! HEE~~HAW~~!!
D: All of the sudden, but I think Iva chan's birthday should be 1(hee)/8(haw). Is it ok?
O: ALRIGHTY!! HEE~~HAW~~!!!
D: About the Marine admirals, along with their real models, can their birthdays be:
Aokiji...9/21 (Mr. Yusaku Matsuda)
Kizaru...11/23 (Mr. Kunie Tanaka)
Akainu...8/16 (Mr. Bunta Sugawara)
how's that? P.M. Nishimura's friend
O:WHATEVER Y'ALL SAY!!!! HEE~~ HAW~~!!!!
D: I really want one of those Nami Huggable Pillows, so I'm thinking of buying one soon, and I wanted to ask you how to use it so I sent you a letter. by Nobuo
O: Ah, I see--. HOW WOULD I KNOW?! I heard those things are out there--. I never saw it before so I'm not sure, but since it's a huggable pillow, shouldn't you just put it in between your legs and sleep? Everyone, you all seem to think i have control over all the ONE PIECE items, but the one who does this stuff is the media staff guy named Oonishi, and I just sit there and look at the product introduction pages and think "Ohh so that's whats out there" or something like that. I don't care as long as customers like the products. I do look forward to the portrait of pirates (P.O.P.) series all the time though. But they're expensive. Seriously.

D: A serious question. How many tones are used in ONE PIECE? Is it possibly one?? Does shonen manga use only a few tones in general? Oh, and are you able to do that "bokashi" thing you do by scraping the tone? Please reply straightforwardly! P.N. manga lover M.S

O: Hey, that's rude to say I use only one tone! I use three, sheesh! I use the famous tone called I-C SCREEN. The light one, dark one, and the one called "sandy". For people who don't know, "screen tone" is this clear sticker you put on manga. If you go to stores, they have hundreds of them, but I use only three. I haven't done the "bokashi" thing for years but I used to in my assistant years. Now, my assistants do it for me.
D: Odacchi! I noticed an amazing thing!!! It is that if you show the Straw Hat Devil Fruit users in numbers, it will be the numbers from 1~10!!
Luffy→Gomu Gomu (5.6.5.6.), Chopper→Hito Hito (1.10.1.10), Robin→Hana Hana (8.7.8.7.), Brook→Yomi Yomi (4.3.4.3.)
(1.3.4.5.6.7.8.10), but there is no (2.9), so is the one who ate the Nikyu Nikyu (2.9.2.9.) no Mi, Bartholomew Kuma, gonna be a Straw Hat next? Please tell me!!! P.N. SHANKUS.LOVE
O: WHAAAAAT?! (shock) Gosh that surprised me! Why was I surprised?! NO COMMENTTTTTTT!!!!!!!! NEXT!!
D: Don't mind my letter and go on to the next one. P.N.Smart
O:....Uh... Ok. Uhm.. Alright. If you say s... WHY DID YOU EVEN SEND ONE!! (that was childish)
D: Some time earlier in the news, it said that they put hormones in a male eel and was able to make it female, but could it be that, Iwa participated in the experiment too?! Was it "Emporio Female Hormones"?! P.N. Newkama
O: Yeah, it has to be that. Now that's what I call "Emporio Female Hormones". In future science, they will eventually find a way to make eels high in tension!! Hee-Haw!! I want to eat that eel!!
--Ok, SBS ends here, but due to the dates, we will take a break in the voice actor SBS, sorry. That takes lots of time, you know. We will do it in the next volume for sure, so next is~
Robin (Yuriko Yamaguchi) and Franky (Kazuki Yao), so please send funny questions for them too, thanks. In the next volume!!
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 60.

﻿D: Odacchi!! Let's take a picture together!! The words will be—of course ONE "PEACE"-- *FLASHES<3* Oh... and also, SBS START!! Yess, I said it-!! P.N. one piece LOVE
O: Say! One PEA~~CE!!....AH!! IT STARTED!!
D: Hello! A question to Franky!! My friend shoots Coup de Vents at me in class! But I can't fire Coup de Vents. (sweat) How should I attack? From Ms Birthday
O: Well ya gotta fire back a "Coup de Boo" of course. Right, Franky?
F: Well duh!!
D: When Fleet Admiral Sengoku uses his ability, why does his hair turn into caviar? by tomoP
O: Phew- what a nice day, today we caught lots! Fresh caviar on top of hot rice <3 here ya go!! THE HECK, WHAT IS THAT, A SENGOKU-AND-CAVIAR-ON-RICE BOWL?! YOU IDIOT!! Course it's not caviar. Fleet Admiral Sengoku is starting to look tasty.
D: Oda sensei--, what is Fleet Admiral Sengoku's ability? I'm real curious. P.N. SOD
O: Yeah yeah, if ya ask me normally, I'd easily answer. That is. It actually appeared immensly easily, but it's the same as Marco's. Mythical Zoan-type, Hito Hito no Mi, Model "Daibutsu". I don't know about Buddha being human or mythical beast, but it's a species classification. Forgive me.
﻿D: On volume 56 pg 195, does the "shuu wakki- masserri" thing Buggy says mean something like "open sesame"? P.N. Ace LOVE
O: Um, that is--. I don't really know much about this, haven't you heard before? Those Christian kids saying "shuu wakki- masserri ♪" in a church. If you suddenly hear it, it's hard to understand, but it means "shu wa kimaseri" ("here comes our holy master" in a Japanese song) and I had the godlike Buggy sing it. (haha) It's like for fun. The title is something like "come here many peoples". Bored people can look it up.

D: In Volume 58, smeared into the Marines vs Whitebeard Pirates war, forgetting to breathe, I'll... I'll... NOT DIE!! Here's a question. In volume 58, Inazuma came out of Iva's hair! Can it possibly be that you can live in Iva's hair? Tell me if you please. My lifelong wish. P.N. colona
O: For one night, one person is5,000. The limit is up to 3 people. When moving, if the ocean is seen, another payment will be needed for the "Ocean View". The top suite in the crown is also available, and it is very comfortable there. The over 30 people "face growth hormone service" is also available, so please make a call.
D: Is it not possible to become a One Piece manager if you're a girl? Are shonen manga managers always men after all--? BY flowerpot man
O: A SEXY, BIG BREASTED BEAUTY PLEASE!!!! Then, I'll work super hard! I'll feel like I can do it! But the jump editor group is a bunch of perverts so you shouldn't, for your safety.
D: Oddachi, I found a mistake! On volume 59, chapter 584, Luffy bleeds because of Porchemy's gloves, right?? But but, in volume 1 chapter 2, Alvida's iron club with the same spikies don't work on Luffy! Is this OK?? Give me something! P.N.MONIO
O: I see. It's OK. It's a slight problem we're talking about here, but look closely. The spikes' angles are different, right?!! I made this difference in the Impel Down Jailer Beasts and all as well, but even if the weapons all have the same spikies, the ones that work on Luffy have fine, sharp points, and I make them look like they can even pierce rubber. On the other hand, I drew Alvida's iron club dull so it looks like it would only put force on rubber. So it's OK!! I won't give you anything~!
D: Question out of nowhere. Is Marco's head "bananas"? Or is it a "pineapple"? and, is Kid's head a "tulip"? Or is it a "Chrysanthemum"? I wonder. I wonder a lot. from Kaho
O: ALREADY NARROWED DOWN TO 2 CHOICES?! (shock) Well, it seems like I have to pick one or the other, so I guess if I had to choose, I would say Marco would be a "pineapple" and Kid is a "Chrysanthemum"... uh... WHAT IS THIS CONVERSATION HERE?!
D: Some time earlier, I was watching the movie "ROCKY" and noticed this, but the character Rocky's pet goldfish's name was to my astonishment, "Moby Dick"!! That's the same as the Whitebeard pirates' main ship's name! Did you take "Moby Dick" from there?? P.N.Negishi
O: "ROCKY", huh? Brings me back to the old times. It was a super hit boxing movie. -- I see, giving a goldfish this name is a pun right there. "Moby Dick" is the title of a super famous novel in America by a person named Melville, about a white whale and one man's duel. In Japan, the title was changed to "Hakugei". I thought it would be perfect for Whitebeard and borrowed the name.
O: M.K.K.(Matomete Kakatte Koi; Come all at once) Corner~!! Yes, this!! It has started, this thing!! I did it in the last volume as well, and you guys all want to make up the characters' birthdays so badly, but it won't go that easy, you jerks-!! Are you kidding me!! "I'll stop you!!" corner, it is!! Come!!
D: Hello Odacchi Sensei☆ I'm always happily reading your books. This is sudden, but is Buggy's birthday 8(Bara)/8(Bara) and Mr. 3's birthday 3/3 OK?! P.N. Dumpling
O: Okay~~ （・▽・）/
D: Hello Odacchi!! Out of the blue, I have thought of Rayleigh's birthday☆
How's that? by Azuma
O:SUuurEEe (≧▽≦)/
D: About Sabo's birthday,「Sa(3)a~bu(2)o(0)~」(super slow replayed)=3/20; how's that? by Ebisu Taishougunn
O: Suree~（・▽＜）♭
D: Nice to meet you!! From the time it started, I am a big fan of One Piece<3 By the way Odacchi...the rookies that appeared at Sabaody Archipelago; aren't they cool? I would like to know their profiles. Also, can their birthdays be something like this? P.N. Ilovecats<3
O: Alrighty then~ （・▽・）/ But Drake and Bege were hard to understand so I took them off. I'm counting on someone else for their birthday--! Oh, and P.N. Black cat chan from the Chiba area, you gave me over 50 postcards telling me to make Marco's birthday 10/5, but they came right after it was made official by P.N. Maru Chan in the last volume--. But I've got your will. Good thing it was the same day.
D: Oda Sensei!! Hello!! Out of the blue, but please give myAxolotl(unknown gender) a name!! Please!! P.N.GwaaaaaaaaWoaaaaaah
O: Oh a Whooper Looper, huh? It was popular back then. Those cute Mexican salamanders. In general, people call them "Axolotl"(pronounced "Ahoro-toru"). How's this? "AhoAho Ahonosuke"(DumbDumb Dumbbunny). Please be nice to it.

D: Hello Oda Sensei! Is it possible that in volume 58, chapter 558, on the 3rd box of the 11th page, I see the 3rd person (Sabo)'s cup? P.N. Saitouryu
O:Wow- again, looking at those teeny parts. The answer is easy, if you read chapter 585 in this volume, you'll see the same scene and you'll be able to tell it's Sabo's cup, but at the time in chapter 558, "Brothers", if I revealed Sabo, things would get complicated, so I secretly drew it. Still, from back then, there were many readers pointing out "what is this", and I seriously freaked out. What in the world are you people!! You're correct!!
D: I was reading ONE PIECE and noticed all of the sudden, but other than character introducing and SBS, you never copy and paste a picture you already drew, right? Is this a policy-type thing of yours? From Snow Pea
O: So, you looked there. Well, yeah. I never copy and pasted before. Uhhh, well we all receive our papers from the publisher, and it pretty much goes like 1 page= money. Like, if you draw on 1 page, they pay you. So if you paste a drawing from the past, isn't that kinda cheating? (haha) Of course, I don't complain about other people. From my personality, I can't stand pasting, plus if I draw everything, I feel pretty much secure that I'm drawing manga with my full power. My personality. And I'm positive; in other words not perverted. Everyone.
D: Good afternoon Odacchi-♪ In chapter 589, Luffy's clothes in the 4th box of page 4 says "Sobauchi", the 5th box of page 8 says "Asagao", the 3rd box of page 11 is "Kankyuki", and 4th box of the 12th page says "Tapioca", am I correct? My sister found it. P.N.springrain soup
O: Hm. One of them is wrong. About Luffy and Ace's tanktops, I received lots of point-outs, so let's just check the answers right here. First, Ace's tanktops. Then Luffy's. (Chap. 585~589.) *(Luffy's tanktops have puns in them that only Japanese people will understand, so there will just be the meanings listed.)
Well, something along those lines. One thing that I hate is that in Chapter 589, pg 10, box 3, I also can't read those words (haha) It says "?NO" but what animal was "?".. can't remember. Oh well. Anyway, the explanation is that I wanted to say that they do indeed change clothes, and so I twisted my brain a little right there. Well, SBS ends here! From pg 186, we have Voice Actor SBS!!
O: H.D.K.!! (Hai, domo, konnichiwa; Yes, hi, hello)
The..7th time!! Voice actor SBS!! Now, this time we have a person with possibly the biggest personality gap. A cautious, mysterious woman, Nico Robin, who is actually voiced by an un-cautious, silly woman!!
Here, I introduce Yuriko YamaguchiIN THE HOUSE!
O: Ok, come in Miss Yuriko a.k.a. Yuruko~ (Yuruko= pun with Yuriko's name and personality since it means "dazed girl")
Y: I'M NICO ROBIN <3
O: Hmmm~~ That's your character name, isn't it? Oh well. Pointing out all the details will not allow us to go forward. Anyhow, she does start to look straight forward when she's acting...
Y: Ah, this tastes good.
O: HEY!!! I didn't tell you to start eating the snacks yet!! Hey, hey--!! Don't mind the tea! Don't mind it!! I'm going to start it--!! Oh, hey, do you know what SBS stands for? SBS.
Y: (S)Shimatta (B)Brook (S)Sashichatta!! (Shoot, I stabbed Brook)
O: DON'T~~!! (shock) Geez!!!
Y: Oh, Odacchi, want some tea?
O: I SAID DON'T MIND MEEE!!!
Y: I know! SBS stands for (S)Shibaraku (B)Bonyari (S)Shimasennka? (Care to daze for a bit?)
O: NO?! Gosh~~!! (vein pops) Do the SBS! Gosh~!
D: To Yamaguchi sensei <3 Hello. I am a 12-year-old that fell in love with Robin's voice!! This is a serious question, but what was your very first impression on Robin?! Please tell me!! P.N. Eruption
Y: A REAL GOOD-LOOKIN' WOMAN!!
D: Question to Miss Yamaguchi! Say "Cinco Fleur" with the "C" as "Ch"! P.N. NORTH2137
Y: Chi..chi...chi... CLUTCH!!! (In Japanese, "Chinco Fleur" means "Testicle Fleur")
D: Miss Yamaguchi, are you like Robin in any way? Oh, and if Devil Fruits actually exist, what would you want? By the way, I want the "Hana Hana no Mi". Because...IT'LL COME IN SUPER HANDY! P.N. Encounter with Nagisa
Y: I'm alike with Robin since I look cool when I'm quiet. The fruit I want is the "Hera Hera no Mi" (Ha ha fruit). I want to make nervous and scary people laugh. (^▽^)

D: Miss Yuriko, oh no!! Odacchi suddenly disappeared!! What do you think happened?
P.N. Osanaga
Y: ASSASSINATION<3
D: Robin reads books often, but what kind of books do you read? Don't tell me you read *orn (porn) books...? P.N.DEATHpeco
Y: CORN BOOKS? I'll try them sometime. <3
D: A question to the Hana Hana no Mi user, flower loving Robin <3. Which flower would suit each of the Straw Hats? Sister Robin can go with a flower she likes <3 by I like cosmoses
Y:
Luffy
Cosmos
Zoro
Thistle
Nami
Sunflower
Usopp
Daisy
Sanji
Delphinium
Chopper
Tulip
Robin
Casablanca
Franky
Anemone
Brook
Rose
D: Hello!! I have something I want to ask you!! Robin is always cool and awesome... even at Thriller Bark, she was the only one who was too embarrassed to do the docking... if that was you, would you reject the offer? P.N.I love Zoro and Robin <3
Y: It's embarrassing but I want to do it... so "HALF DOCKING!!"
D: To Miss Yuriko Yamaguchi: ARE YOU... MY MOTHER?! P.N. OUR CURTAINS STINK.
Y: From now on... "WASH MY CURTAINS TO THE FULLEST FOR ME!!!" (* from "From now on.. LIVE YOUR LIFE TO THE FULLEST FOR ME!!!" by Olvia.)
D: Hello! The OP voice actors seem to do everything in reality, but does that go for you too? Does this mean that when Franky became a Straw Hat, you "grabbed" Mr. Yao's thing?! P.N. Natsutomo
Y: Well, yes, I do do everything in reality as a OP voice actor... So to the unwilling Mr. Yao, (Franky's voicer) "GRAB!" with force!! Mr. Yao, sorry back then.
D: Can you possibly tell me the recipe of the takoyaki you make? P.N. Mujonn
Y: Flour and water, eggs, octopus, ginger, fry crumbs, Taro potatoes (a little), salt (a little), seasoning (a little), soy sauce (a little)
Making of: Mix the water and flour, and add the Taro potatoes, salt, seasoning, and soy sauce little by little. Pour oil on the fryer, and put the octopus in the shape, adding the rest of the ingredients. Looking closely so it doesn't burn, turn the takoyaki in the fryer. Coating with sauce is good, eating with soup is also good.
D: To the friend-loving Robin (Miss Yamaguchi), I ask you. Can you draw the Straw Hat crew? P.N. Lemonski
Y:
O: Ok, time is pretty much up, good work Miss Yuriko - ! Hm? What the heck is this drawing?! (shock)
IT'S TERRORISM~~!!! Everyone run!!! far!! far!...
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 61.

'R: Oh, I changed my pseudonym. '-- SBS START.
O: Gaah!! (shock) (← Noticed it started) uuuh... (← couldn't start it this time either) ugh... (←disappointed)
D: I really, really want to be Inazuma. -by a 31-yr old housewife
O: Yes.
D: Odacchi~ a question for you. Is the 3rd division commander of the Whitebeard pirates, Diamond Jozu's penis a diamond? Please tell me. Pen Name Family jewel Negio
O: Yes, Jozu's penis is a diamond penis.
D: Question 1: Since it all seems to be becoming dirty, SBS will end. P.N. PATAN
O: NO DON'T!!! (shock) Whaddya mean dirty! Look at the question above! OF COURSE THINGS GET DIRTY HERE! HOW AM I SUPPOSED TO ANSWER!! Ah, I see you wrote me another question, Mr. P.N. PATAN...
D: Question 2: Oda sensei, do you poop? P.N. PATAN
O: Since I'm an idol, I don't do those things <3 Ehe <3 WHO YA CALLING AN IDOL!!!! (shock) Ha.. haa... sorry.. that was probably childish. I answered and even got all angry... That time.. my bad... Buri!! (* sound effect when pooping)
D: If Sanji becomes the president, what would his politics be? P.N. Kenichi (Aichi area)
O: Yes, let's see-. First would be "ladies first". He'd make the whole political organization be composed of beautiful women. There would be a law that only ladies can eat good food, in movie theaters, the # of ladies' days would increase to 6 days a week, there would be total discrimination toward men, and the men would form a rebellion, and he would fail, losing his position.
D: Hello Oda sensei. No matter how many times I look at Volume 57's cover, I don't see the 8th division commanderNamur. Did something happen to him?! Give him a chance in the SBS! P.N.Jozu
O: Ah-, that's true-. But in reality, I did draw him. Looks like he got cut off because of a printing problem. In the original I drew, he's right here-. Sometime in the future, I'll make sure he is on the color walks, etc. My apologies, commander Namur!
D: If you take away the cuteness from Chopper, what would happen?! Please attempt to draw him!! Ah, and what do your curtains smell like, Mr. Oda?  --Our Curtains Stink.
O: Well yes-. The curtains in my workplace are lavenderish... or floralish... or rosy-ish, or crappy-ish...
(Chopper is saying "Idiot, how can I by munchin' on sweets. Where's the beer, eh? The beer" and in the speech bubble, it says "Hey, your curtains smell like crap...")
D: You know the coat that all those commissioned Marine officers wear on their backs? The one that says "Justice". That thing never falls of no matter how much the guy wearing it moves, but how does it stay on? A snap stopper? Or maybe super glue? My husband says "it's rubber" (making it a circle and passing it through another circle). P.N. Koteni-
O: Too bad, nothing is on there. That is a coat that has "Justice" on the back. It never falls off, because to them, Justice never "falls"!! As long as that feeling stays in their hearts, THE COAT WILL NEVER FALL!!!
D: Greetings, Odacchi sensei. Good afternoon(?). This is a question, but the marks on the hat Portgas D. Ace was wearing; do they mean:
☹: Was it okay for me to be born into this world?
☺: Meeting Pops, Luffy, and loving me so much, I'm glad I was born. Thanks.
...or something like that to indicate Ace's question and the "Answer" he found? No, it's gotta be that! When Ace said his quotes before dying, his expressions were the same as his hat. P.N. Nara's K(Kuuki) Y(Yomeru) (Can read atmosphere)
O: Hmm, I see. I've received quite a number of postcards on this one. Those "marks" and "the last expressions", hm. They are the same. I, also, was shocked when I had this pointed out at first. (Haha) What's funny is that much to coincidence, that happened to become true. Back then, when Ace made his first introduction, there was sort of an idea of what this dude's destiny would be inside me, but those marks were just plain old accessories, and so I never thought of a deep meaning. And the expressions of Ace when he was dying, well I just thought that would be relevant and drew those two panels next to each other. Realistically, the face of pain, burning, hurting, feeling bad, and not wanting to die. Still, the feeling of having no regrets. He probably tries to tell that is how he truly feels to Luffy. And that's what his smile is. When a person cradles a crying baby, he/she always smiles, right? Same as that. Because he wants the person to smile, he dies with a peaceful smile in the end, and I think that shows us his kindness. Thinking that, I drew those panels. Ah- the explaination got kinda long-. Well anyhow- it's amazing, how you all notice this stuff.
D: Tell me why do conveyer-belt sushi restaurants have to rotate the sushi around. P.N. Marukoh the Phoenix
O: Oh, I think it's the same as the rotation of the ages.
D: Watch closely Oda! This is the entire Yonko group! (instinct) YOU'D BETTER PUBLISH IT!
P.N. Mammoth shrine's little brother
*Lables from left to right say: Shanks, Whitebeard, Kaido, Chappy
O: ...I published it... but what am I supposed to do... My only choice is to ignore...
D: Dear Odacchi, ah, just because I wrote in english doesn't mean I'm a foreigner, just in case. By the way, when I was watching TV, they were talking about this place called the "BERMUDA TRIANGLE". Could it be that the "Florian Triangle" was taken from here? from Below Street
O: Well, obviously, yes. Is this too vague? The Bermuda Triangle is a place that actually exists in the North Atlantic known as the "Zone of Demonic Triangle". I'm not sure about now, but in the past, it was said that every year about 100 or more vessels suddenly disappeared in the scary area. Since the mystery is still unsolved, I'm guess there probably still are many accidents. As for the reasons, there's stuff like electrical problems or methane gas myths and so on forever, so interested people can look it up. There are lots of ghost ship witness stories too.
D: It automatically came to me when I watched the movie "STRONG WORLD". Why there was one place in the dangerous island ofRusukainathat was completely safe. The tree in the background is the critical point, correct? Still, the tree in the movie called Daft Green is probably not the exact same species, so YOU ARE ALLOWED TO explain to the core here, you know? P.N. TAKAAKI . T
Tree on Rusukaina
O: As you have noticed. I figured it wasn't worth explaining because I didn't have enough pages anyway and skipped it all, but when I made the movie storyline, I presented the tree called Daft Green. This is a tree that emits an odor that animals dislike (poison), which explains why they never approach this tree, and so I used it here too. Still, the species is not exactly the same and the setting is "same shape; no poison emitted".
D: Hello Odacchi, I figured out the tank top you were talking about in Volume 60 about Chapter 589♪ It's "Bound". It's "Dog" and "ND" for Bound. I also love the Odacchi that forgets things he wrote himself. P.N. Burdock (* Dogs say "Bau!" instead of "Bark" in Japan, and Bau sounds like Bou.)
O: OHHHHH~~!!!! I see~. That's it!! It's gotta be that! Whew--- how could you tell? Man-, I thought really hard too, but I couldn't figure it out. Thanks!!
D: ODACCHI, TELL US YOUR FEELINGS (WILL) AS OF NOW IN 3 LETTERS!! Pen name, Monkey D. Emi
O: IDK (*Note he is answering at the same time by using 3 letters.)
D: My chest is hurting, and my stomach feels like it's about to puke, but is this the rumored "Haki"? P.N.vlue
O: I see that is "Hakike". (Hakike means Nausea)
D: There's something that ReAaaaaLy bothered me so I took a pen for the first time! And so, the question is Sanji's *BAM*! 2 years later.... IT'S JUST PLAIN OUT THERE!!! And why hide the *GGGGG*?? Please chouse out of my speculations below!
① Illustration mistake ② Image change ③ He's actually a twin named Yonji. P.N.Aoya
(*San in Sanji is 3 so this person changed it to Yon, 4.)
O: I apologize. I couldn't really hear because of the construction nearby, but Sanji hasn't changed at all, has he? From 2 years ago.. ah! Oh, the goatee, right? Looks like he let his goatee grow. It looks pretty wild and pirate-like and I like it a lot. What else.. he has always hidden an eye and... curled his brows.. didn't say anything new to Luffy and the co. when they were reunited... Nothing has changed! If I have to chose, I guess ① if you found anything.
And now from page 182, the seiyu SBS! I will return in the next volume!
Man~~ so quick, it's already the eighth guy. Now for the loud guy to make an appearance. How do I put this, seems like I always used to like strange things, and in private, the actual guy to call me to have some fun was this guy who wasn't even one of my regulars. This weirdo dude that was apparently an idol voice actor!! All of ONE PIECE's weird characters are by him! Jango, Mr. 2 Bon Kurei, and FRANKY'S VOICE'S OWNER!! MR. KAZUKI YAO!! in the house!!
O: Okay, now. Please make your appearance. This is Mr. Yao~.
Y: Hello this is a full-body snake man. I am a snake man from head to toe. Each evening, at the harbor building, I take a bottle of Tequila and (*BEEEEEEEEPPPPP~~!!!!!*) and drink it.
O:Hey, hey, hey, HEYYYYYYY~~!!!!!(vein pops) That's not allowed to be said in public!! How am I supposed to publish what you said!! Geez!!! This dude is scaring me~! (sweat)
Y: Even if I look like this, I'm actually pretty sensible.
O:SENSIBLE MY FOOT!!(Shock) Now, let's quickly move on. Well if you're sensible, do you know this? What does "SBS" stand for, Mr. Yao?
Y: I know (←in dialect) (S) Shounenyo (B) Bee-chiku wo (S) Sueh! (Boy, suck the nipples!)
O:FUCK YOU!! (Shock) GO HOME!!Ah... aah excuse me, I lost myself there.
Y: Calm yourself, Eiichiro.
O:SHADDAP!! WHOSE FAULT IS THIS!!...ah, excuse me... now then, there are lots of postcards waiting, so please do the SBS.
Y: Alrighty! Leave it to me!! Bring the booze---!
O:YOU'RE GONNA DRINK WHILE DOING IT~~!?
D: This is a question to the voice actor, Mr. Kazuki Yao. IS THIS WEEK'S MR. YAO SUPER? by Shining butter
Y: YES!! I'M SUPER SUPER SUPER THIS WEEK TOO.
D: Mr. Yao, after you glug down a bottle of cola, what sound comes out of your throat? (P.N. Beads Maniac)
Y: RIGHT AT THE SPOT, A SCREAM OF MAH SOUL.
D: After pushing Northwards throughout the Japanese Islands, does Hurricane Franky change to *ametamorphic low pressure? P.N. Patchon III
(A metamorphic low pressure is called ahentai-teikiatsu, which is a pun with "low pressure pervert".)
Y: No, it stays at 1000 hectopascals, takes a lap around the earth, and then EVOLUTES INTO A SUPER-PERVERT.
D: Franky, Bon-chan, and Jango; which character most resembles you ⌒□⌒ ? P.N.Kagakko no tokko
Y: Hmm, everyone sorta resembles me--. I always wear sunglasses and stuff, and I love Okama-chans, and at home I'm always in just my underpants so...
D: Hello Mr. Yao! You've always been on the enemy side, but when you found out you wher doing Franky's voice, what did you think? P.N. Tarao
Y: I thought "Sheesh, finally a crewmember!"
D: Right now in ONE PIECE anime, I think you have done many characters other than Franky such as Jango and Mr. 2, but honestly, which role do you think was the most exiting and fun? P.N. Tamitami
Y: Honestly, Bon Kurei. But I'm also lookin' foward to NEW Franky~.
D: RIGHT OFF THE BAT, DO YOU LIKE PEOPLE YOUNGER THAN YOU? To go even farther, how young can you go up to? I'm looking forward to an answer like bro! P.N. -Kun
Y: I enjoy both younger or older. The range aroundMana Ashidachan for younger to about Fune san fromSazae-san'svoice actor,Miyoko Asōchan for older is OK for me. BUT, now the one right smack in the middle for me isMirai Shidachan!!
D: Please tell me Yao-san's favorite type of alcohol and bar snack. P.N. Igaguri
Y: Past: Bourbon & Parliament. Now: Barley Shochu & Dried Mullet Roe
D: This is a question, but how exactly do you say Franky's phrase 「SUPER-!」? I often try to copy it with my friend but we can't seem to do it right. (Hehe) It sorta just turns into a normal "Su-pa-". Please give me a tip♡ BY Holmes☆III
Y: Breathe deeply, suck in the all the world's evil spirit, filter it in your body, turn that into power, and loudly ejecting the word "SUPERRRRRR!" would be good.
D: Franky seems to prefer perverted fashion, but does that go for Yao-san too? If it does, take this-!! "Gift of Swim Briefs Galore-!!" Feel free; don't hesitate! P.N. Tonbanshingi♡Chopper
Y:I LOVE IT.I'll be waiting for the Lots of speedos present-. (Miniskirts would be good too!)
D: Question to Yao-san!! HAVE YOU EVER FELT EMBARRASSED DOING FRANKY'S VOICE ACTOR? P.N.P
Y: Hey hey he-y now! No such person would be- tsk tsky tsky tsk-- ... If yo feel embarrassed you can't do yo work man~~.
D: What kind of character's seiyu are you targeting next?　from S akira kazumi
Y: Next would be either a cool and quiet handsome type, or a midget chief.
D:IF IT'S OKAY, PLEASE TELL ME YOUR FRANKY-LIKE MISTAKES OF WHEN YOU WERE YOUNG. P.N. Carp
Y: Even if it isn't okay, I'd like to tell you, but it's too grotesque to say in public and u, uh.... well, I guess it'd be fine, so let me tell you. About 10 years ago...
O: HEY, HOLD IT, STOP-!! (Shock) Hold it Mr. Yao! What the hell were you trying to say!! "A story that's too grotesque"! This is a book for young boys you know?!
Y: Yeah, It's fine.
O: Heck it is!! I won't be able to publish it!!
Y: Well, anyway, ya know? 10 years ago in Shinjuku when I--BEEEEEEEEPP!!!
O: Yes, see you in the next volume. (wave)
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 62.

D: Hello Oda-sensei. Are you well? You always end up letting the readers say the phrase "SBS Start", and I am also one of those people that want to say "SBS Start" and start the process. But you know, the phrase "SBS Start" is after all a phrase that Oda-sensei should say since it is "SBS Sta-............. P.N. Nyonsuke
O:STOOOOOOP~~!!! (shock) YOU SAID IT TOO MANY TIMES-!!!Ugh. It started... About 4 times.
D: Hello- Hello-! Odacchi! Out of the blue, but my friend came saying "I can activate the Buster Call with my nipple" some time ago. Plus, apparently she can call a Fleet Admiral with it. And so, here's a question to Odacchi. Can Odacchi activate the Buster Call with his nipple? P.N. Matsuko Deluxe
O:IS YOUR BRAIN OKAY --------------- !!?(Shock) Sigh... Ah, I am sorry... I became so violent at my precious reader... I will properly respond. Uhhh... with my nipple, I can summon 5 warships and...OF COURSE NOT!!! YOU MORON!!!(Shock) ...gasp... sorry, natural reaction.
D: I have found a strange confusion, Miss!!(This reader is pretending Oda is a female next-door neighbor)In Volume 51, around when Sabaody Island is first introduced, the Luffy that grew obese after eating takoyaki suddenly became skinny, and then on the next page he is fat again!! How is this possible!! Is it because he is rubber?! I'm so curious I can't go back to my home in outer space~. Pwease tell me~♡ P.N. Spacebot #06 14 year old~~ girl!!
O: ...Ah-- . That is indeed true--. Heh heh—ummm this is... in fact...THE REBOUND EFFECT. Everyone, be wary of it.

D: Nice to meet you Odacchi!! Already, I will ask you, but the covers of Volume 1 and Volume 61...
RIP-OFF!!!Dismissed!
P.N. Chi-chan's friend
O: A~HHHH!! (shock) SHOOT, I DID IT!! I didn't even notice~! I had that feeling I drew this somewhere, ya know-? Yikes, I did it again, this thing. It's a mistake!! (*To the small children. That was actually on purpose. Even though it was on purpose, the part of me that pretends it was a mistake and acts dumb makes me humorous yet even more so.)
D: This is a question, Oda-sensei. During class one time, I had an emergency but my teacher wouldn't let me go to the bathroom and I had a super-embarrassing moment. If I had the Hana Hana no Mi powers, would I be able to bloom a penis in the bathroom and pee from the classroom? P.N. Loved-kun
O: ...yet again, we have a moronic comment... Yep. Well still, scientifically, this is possible. That is, "DICK FLEUR"!!
D: When Killer takes his meals, does he take off his mask and eat? Or does he eat with his mask on? If with his mask still on, will it look kinda like this (→) ? I'm guessing the easiest food to eat would be stick-type. from N.way-san (*caption of drawing to the right says "cucumber" and "carrot")
O: Hmmm - Of course, I assume he eats with his mask on. I think stick-type is a nice idea. I hear ramen works pretty good too. Looks like his meals have pasta as a main course every day. Word is that he enjoys freshspaghetti aglio, olio e peperoncino.Naporitanand other dishes with tomato-based sauces leave his mask dirty, so it becomes a very disgusting process. For your information, alcohol is drunk with a straw.

D: A right-on question about the Blackbeard Pirates!!! In the before-publishing setting, there was a beauty seen, yet why did you make up your mind to include Catarina Devon instead? And "Heavy Drinker" Vasco Shot with his fat, long nose? Nami-san SEXY~~. P.N. Greenmask
O: Yes. Uhh- this is referenced from a comics databook called ONE PIECE "GREEN" where scribbles in my sketchbook can be spotted. In some cases, I take years and years to draw and redraw a character before he/she makes an official appearance before everyone's eye in order to perfect him/her, while in other cases, I just quickly sketch them and make them official in an instant. The Blackbeard pirates would fall into the first category. I redrew their looks many times and came up withTHIS IS THE RESULT OF ALL THAT WORK?!sort of faces that bring up doubts and concerns for everybody. If you ask why I took out the beauty is because the Blackbeard Pirates have a "more pirate-like" theme. Huge, rough, vulgar. Even if such a beauty existed, she would just ruin the mood. (although I like doing that) And so, that's how it is!!
D: Hello Oda-sensei~~☆ This is a speculation but could it possibly be that "Haki" and "Mantra" are the same thing? In Volume 60, since Koby was saying "I felt the presence of people too strongly..." so I remembered. P.N. Blackcatgirl
O: Yes. You are very right. Well in Volume 61, Rayleigh says it clearly from his mouth though. Even though the concept is the same, there are cases where it depends on the country for what you call it. Therefore, exactly.
D: Are the clouds that Odacchi draws Cumulonimbus clouds? Or are they Odacchi's farts? P.N. Yoma Bayashiko (Wakayama prefecture) (* This person's penname is written as an opposite from Mayo Kobayashi, a proper Japanese name.)
O: Fart it is. All those cloud-looking things are actually my farts.
D: Oda-sensei, which Devil Fruit would you like to eat? I bet it's the Suke-Suke one anyway... P.N.Sdd
O:HE—Y!!!(Shock)WHAT'S WITH THE INSTANT JUMP TO CONCLUSIONS!! YOU'RE CORRECT!!
D: Good work everyday, sensei! Well a while ago, I was watching TV and thought, "maybe?!", but is the "Gray Terminal"'s model Smokey Mountain from the delinquent areas of Manila in the Philippines? by NN Brothers
O: Ah, so it was on TV. Yes, you are correct. Reality is something that has scenes that go beyond our imaginations, and "trash mountains burning with smoke rising up from them" is a scenery that actually exists. There, many people really actually live there. How it is displayed in the manga is only the outer looks, and in reality, there are things like diseases that spread, and it's an everyday thing to find corpses lying around in real trash mountains. Even if you wanted to escape from that life, it doesn't go as smoothly as manga. Even if I try to explain, it's sort of not very detailed, so interested people, please look it up.
D: Like "Mugiwara-ya", Law-san tends to call people with the "-ya" suffix, but in the case where the person's last name is "Tsuchiya", then does that become "Tsuchiya-ya"? Please tell me Law-san♡ P.N. HeartLoveWoman
O: Mr. Law—they're calling you --! ............. Aw he won't come-. Let me answer instead. A long time ago, around maybe the Edo period--. There was this thing called "Yagō". So if for instance, in the case where there were two Mr. commoners named "Tomekichi-san", things like "Dōgu-ya no Tomekichi" (Tomekichi of the Tool shop) or "Oke-ya no Tomekichi" (Tomekichi of the Bathtub maker); something with "~ya" would be used in place of a last name-. Like how you shout "Tamaya~" at the fireworks or "Nakamuraya" from Kabuki; have you heard of those? In other words, he just goes with the flow. Right, Law-san?
L: Yeah.
D: My friend accidentally returned a rental DVD box with melon bread inside. What should I do? P.N. Ponkaichidou
O: Yeeeaaahhh....IT HAPPENS--.Yep, those things occur a lot!OF COURSE NOT!(shock) ...but think carefully. Was your friend really renting a DVD? Has it occurred to you that he was actually renting the melon bread? Ya know then, him returning the melon bread would be correct. Heh heh heh heh heh.MY ASS!!!(shock)WHAT THE HECK IS A RENTAL MELON BREAD!!(vein pops)
D: 「I THINK SO TOO.」 P.N. I'll say it right on!!
O: Yeah -!! I know right?! The question itself is strange! ...Who the heck are you!! (shock) I used half a page on things irrelevant to ONE PIECE.
D: Odacchi!! I think it's about time you wanted to do this; "A riddle". Nickname is not Odacchi-. I bet you felt real funny. Sure. Just do it!! Topic should be on ONE PIECE.
O: Ello-! It's Odacchi!! Erm-. ONE PIECE multiplied with~~!! A.B.C.D.E ~ !! Equa-ls! EVERYONE BOING (BO. ING) !! It's Odacchi!! ...Ugh-... (dissapointed in self)
D: ODA SENSEI... I DON'T THINK I'LL BE ABLE TO TREAT YOU AS HUMAN ANYMORE P.N. Positive Hollow
O:SHADDUP--!!!(shock) *huff*
D: You know how there is a "Dude in the Casket Hat" and a dude in the hat that says "PENGUIN" in Law's crew? I'm supeeeer curious about these twos' names, so please tell us! P.N. Sunflower
O: Yes. It's Shachi and Penguin. (*Shachi means Killer Whale in Japanese)
(*Labels on image from left to right: Shachi, Penguin)
D: Nice to meet you Odacchi sensei! I will also want to go to Kuraigana Island to meet Mihawk, but should the souvenir be takoyaki after all?! Ah, FYI, I'll be coming from Osaka. P.N. Appi-. I
O: Please also bring fried squid for him. It's my favorite food. Ah, you didn't ask.
D: In Volume 45 when Garp punched Luffy, why did it work? Was it Haki after all? Or was it "Love"? P.N. Mori-san
O: It is "Love" in this case.
D: I have fallen in love with Akainu's ability. Is that the Gutsu Gutsu no Mi? (Boil Boil Fruit) Or, is it the Magu Magu no Mi? (Magma Magma Fruit) There are too many candidate names that I can't figure out which it is. Please tell me!! P.N. Isshi- 414
O: So I haven't officially write this anywhere? There were questions on the Three Admirals' abilities here and there that came. It is as shown below. ↓
D: This is a question. Is the scar on Luffy's chest from 2 years ago when Akainu attacked Jinbe and Luffy? I remembered when I watched the anime yesterday... P.N. Princess Shirasuboshi(*Shirasuboshi is Anchovy in Japanese, as well as a pun on Shirahoshi)
O: You're right. Akainu punched through Jinbe's left shoulder and into Luffy's chest! Anyway, this marks the end of this SBS Question Corner. We had some technical difficulties, so the SBS with Brook's voice actor that was supposed to be in this volume will be moved to the next. This will be the very last Voice Actor SBS so make sure you have no regrets! See you next volume!
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 63.

D: Recently, we gained the ability to use "KENBUNSHOKU HAKI"☆And so with that in mind, I will try to guess what Odacchi is about to do OK??It is... "WE WILL START SBS!!!"P.N. Parks Yoyogi
O:GYAAAAAAAHHH!!(shock)MY MIND GOT READ----!!!!
Fuck it~~ so you're a Haki user!! Well-- then-- it has begun already, but here first of all, I have 3 things I must announce to everyone. Believe it or not, this 63rd Volume, once again due to my selfish complaints, is an eye-popping wonder containing 12 chapters in all. I didn't rise the price though. Due to this miracle, "I could not add on even 1 page of post-volume extras--". Truly sorry.
Next. -----Due to this, the extra pages are also cut down, so "The seiyu-san SBS will be postponed to the next volume"! Maaan, we're really sorry for making you wait for so long, Cho-san (Brook's voice). In the next volume for sure!! And then the third! ----Yes. "These days I took a liking tostuffingvolumes!" Owee! Hey please don't throw stuff!! Whaaaat--. You don't want the emergency alert--??? But it was good! Mackerelstuffing!!
D: The thing that concerns me is the cover of chapter 614. You see how Makino-san is holding a baby? Does that mean that baby isMakino-san's child?! And does that meanthe father is me?! P.N. Dandelion
O:NOT YOU!!!(Shock)
...ah... Sorry. Well--. Seems Makino-san became a mother. She looks very happy. The father is maybe that person-. Yeah, probably that person.
D: Hello Mr. Oda (bows). I needed to ask you a favor so I sent you my first fan letter! The favor would be: Please post this "Real Shanks!" P.N. Sui-chan
O: I see, a Shanks you drew realistically--. Let's see....!! (shock).......!!!.......!!.....
D: Is two-years later Chopper's "Hat" a fusion of his original one and a blue one on top? If I'm wrong, answer me clearly, please. P.N. Oonuki = π Down
O: You are not wrong. I just fused the two. Since the pink hat is Chopper's treasure, so it didn't necessarily change.
D: I would like to see the picture of Kraken Robin was drawing. Penname Ruki
O: I see, Let us take a peek....!!! (shock)......!!.......!!!....
D: In Chapter 612's Gyoverly Hills, there is an Octopako-like (fish)woman, but why is she angry? P.N. Princess Shirasuboshi(*Shirasuboshi is Anchovy in Japanese, as well as a pun on Shirahoshi)
O: She is there indeed-. Octopako is the female who appeared in Volume 22, Chapter 203's Coverstory Series and dumped Hachi, yes. I'm impressed you found her--. In fact, she actually happens to be a celebrity girl who grew up in Gyoverly Hills. Her dream is to marry the land's prince, but she has obviously never stepped a foot into Ryugu Palace. Even so, the ex-worker of Hachi's shop and some random group of pirates got invited to the Ryugu Palace so she is very dissatisfied, I see~~. "Even I've never went there before! (ughh)" would be the case there.

D: Odacchi sensei!! Hear me out!! Please draw the 7 Shichibukai who made Luffy and Whitebeard suffer two years ago in the battle at Marineford as kids!! P.N. Harada Yutaka
O: Yeah. Sure-. Now I wonder how they look two years later~~. These are the ones that were in the Shichibukai at the time before the war actually began.
(From left to right, top to bottom. Row One: Jinbe, Dracule Mihawk, Gecko Moria. Row Two: Boa Hancock, Sir Crocodile (former Shichibukai), Bartholomew Kuma. Row Three: Donquixote Doflamingo, Marshall D. Teach.)

D: Odacchi, today I noticed something unbelievable. The tails of Merfolk split when they hit their 30's.... which means, the "Weirdo Bearded Dude" with only one tail, "Great Knight of the Sea" King Neptune is in his damn 20's-------!!!!! Now then! Odacchi, go ahead if you have any excuses!! P.N. Tsuchinoko Capturing Team Captain
O:Yes. Well--, rather than an excuse, it's just that I've never explained it and Neptune is actually fine like that. The explanation in the story was confusing, wasn't it? The only merfolk whose tails split so that they can go ashore and walk around are females. I think you'll be able to tell by taking a good look around Fish-Man Island, but there is clearly no male
merfolk over the age of 30 with split tails. The important fact is that the ladies all swim ashore in their 40s and 50s to live on land! Because I really wanted to draw only young, beautiful mermaids in the cove!!LET ME DREAM!!!I am... a mangaka...!!! This is a man's dream!D: Hiya, nice to meet you Odacchi! I am a 12 year old that loves Mr. 2 Bon Clay. The mermaids that made their appearance in Volume 62 were super duper cute. By the way,DO MERMAIDS POOP?P.N. I love Bakuman
O:SHADDUP!!(shock) Could you read the air a bit more? Dude, we were just talking about how mermaids were a man's lifetime dream. And well according to my theories, one or two of those scales would have to peel off at some point, probably. I wonder if it would be from the back-- or front--. And then th*GAHHHHHHHH---!!!!*poo*STOOOOOP----!!!!!*.... Eh?! Sanji!!
Sanji:YOU SHITTY BASTARD!!! IF YOU SAY ANYMORE, I'M GOING TO SHRED YOU INTO PIECES!!! (roar) Mermaids don't do that stuff!! Got it??!
O:.....Yes. I'm sorry. (sweatdrop)

D: Odacchi~~!!!! Good morning to you. Mind a question out of the blue? Could it be that the people in this scene... is Hancock and the others from a different angle? Answer me please♡ If you answer me, I'll give you my signature~~♡ P.N. Gonke Hair Stylist
O: I don't want your signature. Still, the only thing I can say in response to this point-out is impressive. Amazing how you noticed such a small thing. If there was something I have to say, it'd be the fact that I do not necessarily want your signature.
D: Sensei, emergency report!! It seems like you and I are the only ones on the surface of earth currently wearing womens' panties on our heads. P.N. Makoto
O: EHHH!!? (shock) .......you.....you......you're kidding me right?! That. Huh? .....Come to think of it, in middle school..... everyone wore school caps... Come to think of it, I always got arrested by the police, and that was because I wasn't wearing any clothes and..... Oh well. I'm going to live positively!(←Nice Guts) Okay but still, that person should be wearing panties on his head. In the next volume, we'll have the last voice actor SBS; Cho-san, the role of Brook will appear. Be eagerly waiting~~!
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 64.

D:
*I started SBS; from P.N. N.Street

O: Hello everybody, greetings from me. Man--... It's starting to get really hot, don't you think? It's almost summer I see--. (It's actually winter) Hmm- when it's summer, you really start craving for it. You know, Chinese Food. Oh? I see a very summerish item right over there. It finally started this year too; A CHILLIN' SBS. Heeeeey!! (shock)
*translator's note: The chinese food part is a pun between hot chinese food you would usually eat in the winter, and "hiyashi chuka", which are cold chinese noodles that are considered a symbol of summer (or summerish item). "Chillin' SBS" refers to the joke he uses, since in Japan, people call corny jokes "cold jokes". Also, the words he uses (hiyashi SBS) is yet another pun since this overlaps with the "hiyashi chuka" mentioned above. Finally, this may be a triple pun since winter is cold.
D: Odacchi~~!!! Do a sneeze!! P.N. Kirikirimai
O: Ha... ha... haIKKINN!!!Sniff.......... Ahh~.....*translator note: This is a pun between "hai" (Yes or okay in Japanese) and a strange sneeze.
D: If you woke up in the morning to find that your left hand turned into something like "Crab-Hand" Gyro, what would you do? If it were me, I guess I'd boil it. P.N. Maeda
O:YOU'RE GONNA EAT IT?!(SHOCK) No matter what, it's still your hand, you know?! Oh, but if you're gonna eat it, then I'll help you eat that arm with you. Yup, I won't eat my own hand. Just yours is good.
D: Question! About Megalo-chan, his model... rather, where his name came from; is he named after a large shark called "Megalodon" that was thought to have existed way back when? I also heard that they may still exist? P.N. Miha
O: Yes. Right on spot. Megalodon indeed. They are said to be the ancestors of the Great White Shark, and when a fossil of its tooth that was found, its estimated size was about 13m~20m or so. Well, it probably was a horrifying monster. I am drawing Megalo as this "Megalodon".
D: Odacchi sensei, I will ask a question~. I am very serious!! In volume 63 chapter 622 page 144, it's written "~ar Justice" (~ずの正義) behind Kizaru, and I remember Aokiji's said "Completely Lazy Justice". Please tell us Akainu, Kizaru, and Odacchi's Justice. P.N. K.Z.K. Jones
O: Mine too?! Uh, well here it is.



Yes. Weeell about my justice, just the bored people can think about that please. I'm a Takashi fan for some reason. Akainu's justice can be taken from his actions of burning Robin's homeland, Ohara, down completely in order to demolish all evil. At this time, Aokiji used to have a board that said "Burning Justice", but after thinking about it for so long, his thoughts and will all came to a settle on "Lazy Justice". In these past two years, there was this big "happening" that occurred among the Marines. I want to draw that happening so bad I'm getting flutterflies. Please enjoy it in the canon sometime in the future.
*translator's note: Takashi refers to Takashi Yanase, creator of Anpanman.
D: Greetings, hello Odacchi. I've come up with Drake and Bege's birthdays.
What do you think. P.N. Eraser Gomu Gomu no~ Stamp
O: Oh yeahhh. These two were the only supernovas without birthdays, right? Hmmmmmmmmmmmm~~.... (←pretending to think) Sure.
D: I'm probably really slow, but I still do not really understand how the bounty hunting process works well. If you kill a bounty head, then you get money from the marines, right? Doesn't the pirate who came to sell the bounty head get caught by the marines too? P.N. Sakimaru
O: Yup, the pirate gets caught. So even if a pirate kills another, he won't get the money. What he obtains is "Evil Fame".
*translator's note: Usopp says "No just stretch it out normally!!" in the image above.
D: Panties, panties, panties, panties, panties, panties, panties, panties, panties, panties, panties, panties, panties, panties, panties, panties, panties, panties, panties, panties, panties, panties, panties, panties... P.N. The curse of panties
O:HEEEEEYY!!!(SHOCK) Woah woah woah~~!! (sweat) What happened!
D: Panties, panties, panties, panties, panties, panties, panties, panties, panties, panties, panties, panties, panties, panties, panties... P.N. The curse of panties
O:STOP--!!What in the world. On both sides of the card, 130 times (←yeah I counted). What about panties. Are you craving for them?! Do you want to wear them?! This is a Q&A corner.
D: The staring face all ladies on the face of earth after reading Odacchi's SBS. Even the cutest chicks will turn into this head and face. Stay strong! P.N. Yuki
O:EHHHH~~?!(SWEAT) Stop!! Ouch!! Owww!! Please wait I'm innocent-- It wasn't me-- It's the readers that are dirty--!!
D: A question for (Oda)chinchin!! What are the insides of Vice Admiral Strawberry's head? P.N. Mami
*translator's note: chinchin means penis in Japanese.
O: Yes. Ehhhem. First off, let's stop calling people a penis so lightly. Ouch! The eyes of the girls sting! Vice Admiral Strawberry has appeared on several occasions such as the buster call in Enies Lobby and the Whitebeard war, as I recall, but on those occasions he has been wearing a hat, I believe. Although we would think "Oh what a long hat", in the recent flashback of Fish-Man Island, it was shown how the bandages on his head twisted up to the top. In other words, yes. Strawberry is a person with a long head. It isn't his hair that is long. A "long-headed human" with a lo~ng skull is the correct answer. He is very good at headbutts.
D: Is it true that if you tickle Ikaros Much in the armpits, he'd get tickled 4x a normal person? P.N. Mami
O: Ahahahahyahyahyahyahiiiahahahaha it tickles me just by thinking of it. 8 armpits.
D: Hello Oda Sensei. Question all of the sudden. In some spots during the story, there are mermen that have this round thing on them that seems to be something like a float(?), but what in the world are these? And why do they wear them? Please tell us. P.N. Usoppii
O: Yes. This is obviously a bubble. The same as the ones on Sabaody Archipelago. Since it is hard for mermen to walk on feet, so they float on top of a bubble, wave their tails, and move as if swimming. It seems there are many ways of using them such as sitting or sticking things inside. The mermen always have this item called the bubbly coral, which the bubbles come out of.
D: AND? P.N. Mercurian
O: Ehhh...--- And I want to hug the mermaids on top of those bubbles. MORON!! (SHOCK) That was just unnecessary!! (sweat)
D: Oda sensei! I frequently read manga, and in scenes where the characters talk, there are mangas where the characters talk with their mouths closed and others w/ characters talking with their mouths open. If it were me, I'd make them open to make it seem more realistic, but when Oda-sensei draws ONE PIECE, do you worry over this stuff? P.N. Manapii
O: Ho- hum. You surprised me. You really like manga, don't you? Indeed. There are people who make their characters talk with their mouths shut. I can't do that. It makes me sick drawing like that. We just automatically think it's weird when the mouth isn't open when talking. I think it just depends on people's opinions. The artists that make the characters talk with their mouths closed probably want their characters to look cool and posy no matter what, in my opinion. Probably. "As long as we get it, I don't care if it's sloppy", "If it's incomprehensible, then there's no point in drawing it"; These are the thoughts the mangakas put towards their "art". All artists have their own styles.
D: Heeeeey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey Odacchi my boy, Odacchi that came flying from some random place. I have something I want to ask. In Volume 63 chapter 626 "The Three Neptune Brothers", the scene where Otohime cries to the floor about the signatures. There's this dude that looks identical to the Nami mermaid Luffy drew in Volume 8 chapter 69 "Arlong Park"!!! What the heck is that creature. Tell me or else, uh... ummmm... what should I do? P.N. King of the Land of Gedatsu
O: Lots came. Postcards concerning this topic. Amazing how you find this stuff. And, Luffy's imaginary "mermaid" happend to be real~.
D: EAR CRAP, NOSE CRAP, EYE CRAP. WHICH DO YOU PREFER? P.N. Hatamori
O: I guess ear crap.
D: Oda sensei... YOU'RE JUST NOT MY TYPE. P.N. Match and Takeshi
O: Ehhhh~~!! But you read ONE PIECE, so I do like you.
D: Odacchi!! It is my first letter to you. A very serious question. In Chapter 598, they say Soul King's "TD sales are at the top..." but what isTD? Something like the CDs in this world? I'm curious. P.N. Toru-man
O: Yes. Yes indeed. Please think that way. The world has changed much in two years, and obviously technology has improved. TD stands for "Tone Dial". The shell that records and saves sound. The people have succeeded in obtaining and improving this. They are sold in pairs, and along with headphones and stereos, it is possible to enjoy music.
*translator's note: image above says "the pair of TDs"

D: Greetings, sensei. I already have a question for you. Please draw the supernovas when they were kids. P.N. XDrakeFan
O: Yes. Sure. My SBS ends here. From p186 is the Voice Actor SBS!
(From left to right, top to bottom. Row One: Scratchmen Apoo, Trafalgar Law, Killer. Row Two: X Drake, Capone "Gang" Bege, Basil Hawkins. Row Three: Jewerly Bonney, Eustass "Captain" Kid, Urouge.)
It is number 9. Sorry to keep you waiting!! This is the final "voice actor SBS"! Now then, the person we have here today is a super celebrity of a certain time period. Long ago, the loved one who used to be in an NHK channel called "Tanken Boku no Machi" (Adventure in my town). And now, NHK yet again, he acts out "WanWan"'s voice in the channel "Inai inai ba!" (Peek a boo!) and also makes the sound effects on his own; a very rare talent holding voice actor!! Let's give him a call! THE OWNER OF BROOK'S VOICE!! MR. CHO!!in the house!!
O (Oda): Spot's on you! This is Mr. Cho~~!!
C (Cho):I'M SO GLAD I WASN'T FORGOTTEN~~ (TEAR)
O: Woah woah, crying all the sudden right after making an entrance. See how I advertised your NHK channel just now as an apology? So wipe your tears Mr. Cho. Ah, yes, I have some candy so...
C:45 DEGREES!!
O:He's not listening!! (shock) AGH!! He ran away!! Yo Mr. Cho!!
C:Ah, Odacchi, it's my jogging time so...
O: Ehhh?! Wait, please! I know it's an important daily activity, but could you...
C: Okay.
O:YOU'RE OKAY WITH IT?!! (SHOCK)Ehhh so then before you start jogging away again, do you know what "SBS" means?
C:(S) SUGOI YO!!! (AMAZING!!!)
O: Yeah yeah. Uh well that'd be only the "S" part, but it's actually "SBS".
C: Ahh. I see, then um(S) SUGOI YO!!! (AMAZING!!!) (B) BOKU!!! (ME!!!) (S) SUGOI YO!!! (AMAZING!!!)
O:YOU GUYSALL HAVE ZERO WILL TO DO THIS!!Dammit! This is the finally the end of doing SBS with these free people!! (←the person who suffers) Here Mr. Cho, these are the postcards!
C: Okay, then I'll be going--!! *runs*
O:EHHHHH!!? (SHOCK) SBS WHILE JOGGING!!?Ug!! Fine be that way!!
Mr. Cho's SBS, TBC on P206!!
D: WHERE DID CHO SAN GET HIS NAME FROM? P.N. Captain Nobuo
C: 長島茂; Shigeru Nagashima (Real Name) ← The kanji Naga (長) can also be read as "Cho" right?
D: I heard that Cho san runs 10km every morning, but do you have advice for health or anything of that nature? P.N. Cho san's name becomes "Mister" when you change "ru" to "o"...
C:SUNLIGHT. Whatever the case, Mr. Sun isAMAZING!!
D: Question for you. During the years of having the career of being Brook's voice actor, is there a time you really felt grateful for this role? This is a serious question. P.N. loveBrook
​C: A highschool female said "Ehhhh??! Seriously?!! Kyaaaaaaaaaaaa!!!" When she saw me. But she may have been rejecting me instead...
D: Cho san! I've loved you ever since back in third grade of elementary school♡♡please marry me!! Ah! But I have a husband already! (shock) Ah! I have 2 kids too!! (shock) Ok well then can you show me YOUR PANTIES AT LEAST? P.N.Tanken watashi no machi
C: Sure. Ah,I WASN'T WEARING ANY.
D: Yohohoho♪ Mr. Cho, is your work for realism to look at the voice actresses' panties?? P.N. Nyonko
C: How did you know?? Hey, hey, hey, hey.
D: What color would you like Ms. Yuriko Yamaguchi (Robin's voice)'s panties to be today? P.N. T
​C:ALLEY CAT COLORED.
D: Mr. Cho, didn't you feel a gust of irritation being skipped in the SBS two times in a row? Smash those feelings towards Oda~~!! That's the easiest way. Open Oda's mouth during his sleep. Place some poo in there. Now you RUN. P.N. Ayaman fish-man
C: Um, I, don't poo, SINCE I'M AN IDOL. AKB doesn't either, right? Not even Momoe Yamaguchi right? And Haruka Ayase? And Jang Geun-suk?
SORRY, I LIED.
D: If you were to think of a new move for brook, what would it be? P.N. Red beard
C:SIDEWAYS 90 DEGREES!!(Just sleeping)
D: Mr. Cho, you're that Mr. Cho from "Tanken boku no machi" right?! I loved that show so much I can still sing the theme!!! In my memory, I remember how you would easily jot down a map of your adventures, at the end of the show... To that amazing artist Mr. Cho, I would like you to draw the ONE PIECE characters. P.N.Kupante
C: --image here--
D: Hey! Hey!! I have a request for Mr. Cho! Please sing SOUL KING's favorite song called "panties". You like them too, right? Panties♡ P.N. Rose Essence
C: ♪Panties-- panties-- ♫ Panties-- don't walk towards you♪ So~~ that's why they try to~~♫ 1 day 1 pair 2 days 2 pairs~~ When you see 3 pairs here comes a nosebleed~~♫
O: Yes, hello!! Mr. Cho, it's almost tim-- Ah! It's still continuing (sweat)
C: Li~fe is♪ One two panties♫ Sweat and cry, look at dem panties--♫ The panties-- you show~~ make my life rose colored♡♫
O: Yes, thank you very mu-- eh?! (sweat)
C: Lift your legs and shake yo ass and panties--♪ Panties--♫ Show~ me~ without~ any~ breaks~~♫
O: Okay I think that's about enou...
C: Odacchi together~♪ Hey♫
C&O: PANTIES IN PLAIN VIEW♫ BOOMBOOM♪
O: THE HELL YOU MAKIN' ME SING!! (SHOCK)
C: Now then guys! See you! Bibiii!! jog jog jog jog....
O: THATS THE END?!!! (shock) Seems like it's over! In the next volume!!
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 65.

D: Hey~~ Odacchi~~ee, you always let a reader say "SBS begin!"~~. I love that about Odacchi!! So, "SBS begi..." from S Shimei kun.
O: Eh!? Can I really say it? That last letter, for my sake... you left it off for me to say? Sigh---... Thanks. Okay then I'll say it okay?! Three, two, one, "m".I SAID IT WRONG!!! (SHOCK)
D: Panties panties panties panties panties panties panties panties panties panties panties panties panties panties panties panties... P.N. Be sure to count the number of panties
O: Stop, stop. ...I said stop. Stop, stop, stop,STOP!!! (vein pop)Wheeze...wheeze.... You're back, Curse of the Panties. Worth 3 postcards. All over the surface, "panties" was written 3787 times (I counted)!! I'm not going to post this next time! It wasn't even a question or anything! There were even things like "penties" or "panites" in the middle!!
D: I am a fourth grader who loves Fisher Tiger. I'm always looking forward to the releases. I have a question for Oda-sensei. What is inside Camie's backpack? P.N. Aselola No. 1
O: Hmm-.Dreams, probably. Oh and maybe alsosoy sauceandbutter(for the clams).
D: This is a question, but in volume 10, Hacchan names himself, "In Fish-Man Island with the exception of one person, The No. 1 swordsman 'Six Swords Style Hachi' ", so is that one exception Hyouzou? If I'm wrong, please kill me. P.N. Yuurakuron
O: No, it's correct! Is it really a question worth staking your life on!?(sweat) They both trained at the same sword fighting dojo, but Hachi was no match at all for Hyouzou.
D:OH--, I GET IT~~!!! (DO-N!)
O-h, even though I didn't hear you!!! Har har!! By Setobyun
O: I have not said anything yet, but. Ah hah hah hah hah (I apologize for being mean).
D: Allow me to ask a serious question!! So the nine members of "The Straw Hat Pirates" each have a jolly roger, right?? So it's been 2 years, have you thought of new designs after all!? from M Hiyuu 22 years old
O: About these--. They've already been finished. So the toy companies and stuff, they wanted to put logos on the merchandise so they came up with some of their own saying "You cool with these!?" but I said, "Wrooong!!" and made some revisions to them and all, so that's pretty much officially settled. Well, well, all sorts of companies are having their troubles too. Yep, it's this.
D: In the ONE PIECE of these days, all kinds of strong ability users whom even Luffy can't compete with have been appearing, one after the other. In general manga and anime, I feel that the protagonist is established to be the strongest of all, but why did you decide to turn Luffy into a pretty weak-looking rubber Devil Fruit user? P.N. Do your best Japan
O: Ahaha, that is true. It must seem like a mystery when you consider all the other strong and cool abilities. The answer is simple. I have picked the most ridiculous ability. If the protagonist were the typical strong guy, I doubt I could continue on with this for long. No matter how serious the story gets, Luffy is there to stretch and inflate. He always give me a chance to fool around. That's the kind of manga I wanted to write.
D: Nice to meet you! Straight to the question! My little sister said, "Is Ishilly, the one with the cute freckles/droopy eyes from Mermaid Cove anishidai(striped beakfish) mermaid-chan with her trademark stripes??" Please answer her. She also said, "I want to know the model fish for the other girls too!" P.N. V&UU
O: Ahh. That is right. The striped girl is Ishilly the ishidai, one of the island girls who was kidnapped by Caribou. Actually, all the beauties from Mermaid Cove happen to be dancers at theMermaid Cafe. Well, seems the beauty of their dancing could very well bring an end to Sanji's life. Now then, I'll introduce the top fiveMermaid Cafe Dancers.
Translator's Note- From left to right: Ishilly (ishidai [striped beakfish]? mermaid), Kairen (karei [righteye flounder] mermaid), Hiramera (hirame [flounder]? mermaid), Seira (kintchakudai [marine angelfish]? mermaid), Melo (kiss [smelt-whiting]? mermaid)
D: Hello! My family and I always enjoy your series. So, here is a question! During your work, is there a significance to the use of katakana(タイヨウ) when writing the word "sun" instead of kanji(太陽)? I am kind of curious about this. P.N.Makki-
O: I see. This is pretty much subconscious on my part as well. I have been writing タイヨウ(Taiyo/sun in katakana) naturally. For example. When I'm writing childrens' conversations, AKA, stupid Luffy's conversations, I deliberately reduce the amount of kanji used in the lines and opt to write more words in hiragana. That's because I feel that writing something even the speaker himself wouldn't really understand clearly in kanji is somewhat unnatural. In the same way, for the fish-men, "The Sun" is something that they would never be able to see unless they swim 10,000 meters up to the surface. It's just not a part of their everyday lives. In short, it is something that they yearn for without really understanding. Therefore, rather than the use of kanji, the katakana version "タイヨウ" suits the word better for me in this context. "The Sun Pirates" (タイヨウの海賊団). It's the awkward naming I enjoy.
Translator's Note: Katakana is a limited alphabet with the same amount of letters as hiragana (46). It is one of the three alphabets that the children of Japan learn prior to kanji, which in contrary, has an infinite number of characters (which it's list is still being revised) that stand for several things and is even more complicated to write as well. While hiragana (and eventually kanji where appropriate) is the standard, katakana is typically used in Japanese text when portraying foreign terms, concepts, or speakers.

D: Odacchi~~!! Canned mackerel sure is delicious!! P.N. Macka. MackerelMan
O: Mackerel es muy bueno~~! I recommend canned mackerel with scallions. It's way too good!!
D: In the scene of volume 64 where the kids of Fish-Man Island say they want Luffy to go wild right now, I discovered a man who said "Me too" ("Watahi mo sore ga ii"; lit. "I also want that") and approached them wearing a shirt that says "SOREGA I I YO" (I agree) in romanization!! What's up with that!? P.N. Trafalgar Law <3
D: What species is the girl in chapter 663 who is wearing clothes that say "TEGA2TSUI"("te ga ni tsui" lit. 2 pairs of hands)? P.N. Takaaki T
Translator's Note: There is a misprint in the book; Reader initially meant chapter 633, not 663.)
O: Yes. Well I've introduced two of these letters. Just to get things over with on the matter of the girl, I didn't go as far as thinking of a specific species for her, but I think she's probably a fishgirl based on an ancient type of fish. Because they have lots of fins, the fish from long ago. And, the clothes... are quite self explanatory. With a bit of my humor around this point of drawing the gallery of onlookers, I really got into the idea of "Situation-Explanation Shirts", so if you search, I think you'll find a variety. Even in this volume.
D: Oda-sensei, there was something strange during the story. When the king and princes are all tied up, their expressions look painful, right? Isn't that weird? Normally I'd think that a person who's tied up wouldn't be able to help but to be smiling broadly, as I am now... You too, no? P.N. Shimizu Chagero
O:ARE. YOU. AN IDIOOOOT!!! (SHOCK)You, the hell are you saying--!! This is shonen manga!! Ack!! You're that pervert Shimizu Chagero from previously!! So your jail term already expired!! Ah!! Excuse me, officer--!! See, he's over there; that dude who's enjoying being tied up! Please arrest it! ........Eh!? I'm not involved! Eh!? Why!? Why do I also have to be arrested just because I'm not wearing a pair of pants and underpants! No, he comes first!*Clink!!*Ah! Wait I have approaching deadlines! Wait, Officer!? Hey---...
D: Who is Oda-sensei's rival among the One Piece characters? I know it's Franky. I'm only making sure. Penname Toku
O:WHAT'S WITH THE DECISION!! (SHOCK)Cut it out, would you? Talking as if I'm a pervert. Well, yeah, hmm...I guess the one you could call a rival would be...Nami. When I had my chest measured while having a suit fitting recently, it turned out to be to 99 cm. Eh? Waist? The waist was, let's say somewhere between 50 and 99. In short, I'm also prettymuch a pin-up model. Okay, next postcard.
D: Concerning Shirahoshi's birthday, since she's Shira (4) hoshi (4), can you make it April 4? You're cool with that right? Please I beg of you (cries). P.N. Dokkoi
O: Sure.
D:Monjawa washi nomon-jamon.P.N. Kazu
Translator's Note: Monja is a type of okonomiyaki pancake. "Jamon" is Neptune's verbal tic. It is a pun because a typical old timer might say "This monja is mine" (Monja wa washi no monja), but here, this ohhh-so-clever reader has added an extra "mon" to the end.
O: Right. Got it.
D: Luffy's haoshoku haki was able to affect 50,000 men, but how many would Shanks and the others be able to defeat? P.N. Captain Nobuo
O: In exactly the same place and exact same situation as Luffy, Shanks or Rayleigh may have been capable of knocking out all 100,000. In a different setting, you can't really compare just by asking "how many people". Being able to knock an enemy out with haki depends entirely on having an overwhelming power gap between the two. In Luffy's case the point is the number of people that were so weak that they were not even worth him fighting. If there were 100,000 to-some-extent-strong-willed pirates before him, it's possible that he wouldn't even be able to knock out a single one. On a related note, as one's proficiency with haoshoku advances, it's even possible to target a few people in a crowd to NOT knock out.
D: To Odacchi ♡ Draw the Marines Sengoku, Garp, Akainu, Kizaru, Aokiji as children. P♡L♡E♡A♡S♡E♡ P.N. Emukitchi
O: So you use the method of seduction--♡ Umm... Age isn't written huh... Let's just assume it is from a 22 year old bikini beauty... Sure--♡ Ah, this is the final SBS page. See you next volume~~!!

Translator's Note: Top left- Garp, top right- Sengoku. Bottom left to right- (Kizaru) Borsalino, (Akainu) Sakazuki, (Aokiji) Kuzan.
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 66.

D: Greetings to Oda-sensei and readers. I happen to be aPSYCHIC. I will now accurately guess what Oda-sensei wants to say at the moment."I WILL START THE SBS."Take that. Aren't I amazing. P.N.M.MINORI
O:YOU GOT IT RIIIIIGHT--!!! (SHOCK)Ehhh--?! How did you know?! That really scared me just now!!
D: Is Akainu's dick Magu-Magu? P.N. "DI"
O: Woah, woah.
D: Is Aokiji's dick Hie-Hie? P.N. "C"
O: Hey, hey.
D: Is Kizaru's dick Pika-Pika? P.N. "K"
O:STOPPIIIIT---!! (SHOCK)What the hell are these questions, right from the beginning.YES TO ALL OF THEM, DAMMIT!!! (Vein pop, huffing)
D: Odacchi Odacchi, when will thehugging pillowof New World Nami come out in stores? P.N. Captain Nobuo
O:LIKE I'D KNOW--!! (SHOCK)I keep telling you guys, it's not like I'm involved in the producing of merchandise or that I watch over all the ONE PIECE goods that are produced! Oh, but speaking of merchandise, I'd like Franky's arms. You could wear them and grab people's heads for fun and stuff. It'd even makes sounds. What do you say,Mr. Bandai.
D: Why is Oda-sensei's avatar a "fish"? Since it's Oda-sensei we're talking about here, it must have this... deep and wonderful meaning to it! P.N. Emi@3!04
O:NOPE, NOT AT ALL---.
D: If you turned a kraken intotakoyaki, how many servings would you be able to make out of him? P.N. Hunting Pirate Crew
O: Well yeah--. Even if you put lots of octopus into each takoyaki as customer service... there'd be 10 million takoyaki made, so with 1 pack of 8 takoyaki... 1 million 250 thousand packs! You can eat him along with 1 million 250 thousand people!! Wait, don't eat your friend!! (shock)
D: Oda-sensei!! Greetings. During the move "Kirisame", Hody's back fin transformed into a sharp edge. Are the back fins of fish-men detachable? Are they trade-able? Or did he just stab the weapon fin onto his back next to his real fin?? Please tell me!! P.N. Meow
O: That, my friend, is a weapon that you can slide onto the fin.
(Translator's Note - Captions:
D:HELLODACCI-----phew-- how's dat. I, who loves ONE PIECE no matter how busy I am, have searched. (Might not be all that's there) ☆ Are these, like, the fish-men's feeling/mood at the moment version t-shirts?! P.N. Horo Horo
O: Woah--. You found a lot--. I'm impressed~! T-shirts that don't make sense once the situation changes. Very inefficient. Seems like in Fish-Man Island, the Aloha style is most common and Criminal Brand's Situation Explanation t-shirts are currently popular.
D: Odacchi, Odacchi, Odacchi, Odacchi, Odacchi----!!! Yes. I tried calling you 5 times for no reason! Hello. Let's go right to the question. It's quite serious, too XD. On pages 198-9 of chapter 636 in volume 64, Chopper said that he needed a Rumble Ball for only one form, and the other 6 were available anytime, anywhere on his own free will. "Guard Point" is supposed to be included in those 6, right? But on page 38 of chapter 605 in volume 62, there is a Chopper who eats a Rumble Ball and does "Guard Point". Why is that--?! Please tell me your answer. Or else... I'll quit being your fan!! P.N. I vote for Odacchi
O: Yes. It's true-. After volume 65 came out, we now know that when Chopper uses a Rumble Ball, he can fight in his Monster Point form. ---and so, there's no way he needs one to transform into the other forms! What does this mean... answer for him!! Mr. "P.N. Running is First Class Cowardice"!!
D: In chapter 605 of volume 62, Chopper eats a Rumble Ball-like substance before transforming into his "Guard Point", but for Chopper who has grown over the last 2 years, he shouldn't have needed a real Rumble Ball. Of course I realized that that was the now-popular Rumble Ball candy, but most readers probably mistook this for the real deal!! Geez Chopper, you took such a misleading action...!! P.N. Running is First Class Cowardice
O: Yeah, I know right!! Silly Chopper! Really, for heaven's sake--. Thanks to you, there were lots and lots of my readers pointing that block out to me. Don't be eating candy in the middle of the abyss! You silly boy! ..mmhm, so with that said, let's list all the 7 new revealed forms of Mr. Chopper altogether!
(T.N.: From left to right; (Can transform whenever [even though sometimes he feels the urge to eat a Rumble Ball Candy]) Brain Point, Walk Point, Heavy Point, Guard Point, Kung Fu Point, Horn Point, (Rumble Ball necessary [3 minute use]) Monster Point)
D: Odacchi sensei~~!! You said that nNami-SwaN was an I cup before,... In the "New World", I suspect that has changed? What is her cup size?? Please, oh please tell me! P.N. ♡Rico♡Emi♡Nanami♡
O: Goodness, this question keeps popping up ever since the Straw Hat entrance of the New World. I think it's about time I've got to wrap this case up. Let's call for him! Sa-nji~!
S: You called? You need my bust scope again? You guys! Fine! I'll take a look for you! Nami-san and Robin-chan's...BUBAAAAAAAGHHHH♡
O:SANJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII~~!!!(panic).... So,HOW MANY cms DOYOUTHINK NAMI AND ROBIN'S BREASTS ARE, AND WHAT DO YOU THINK THEIR CUP SIZES ARE?Answers in postcard format are welcome~~ (^^)!! (← Put it to the side)
D: The "piece ofKuuigosu" from chapter 653. I recognize that when you read it backwards, you get "Sugoiuku" → "Floats Unbelievably". (sparkle) Then, I suddenly remembered about the "piece of wood that floats unbelievably" that made devil fruit user Mr. 3 float in the water after being K.O.ed in the Alabasta Arc; could it be that you were talking about this back then?! Well?! P.N. Daicha
O: Uh-huh. So you realized? I knew it! In the SBS of volume 25, I gave a blunt explanation of fruit user Mr. 3 floating on water, and yes. What I meant back then wasPRECISELY THIS!!Back then you know? You guys all probably thought I said something random only to avoid the moment of silence, right? Uh, wrong. I've already tho.. thought of this scenario from uh.. way back then, hehe... N, no... really! (sweat)
D: My Mother told me that the reason why most women in OP are very voluptuous and the men all have a well-built body with a defined 6-pack is because you tremendously wish to become like them in your dreams, but is this really true? P.N. I love Maruko!!
O: Exactly.I WANT TO BECOME VOLUPTUOUS!!!(ex. of correct response: "That side?!!")
D: Hello Oda-sensei! In volume 62 when Sanji meets the mermaids and blows a shower of nosebleed, Chopper was saying his blood type was "S", but that sounds really different! What are the other blood types? If it's okay with you, I'd like to know the blood types of all the Straw Hats! P.N. Bepo
O: Yeah. Sure.
...so that's it. To be clear, the types include F, S, X, and XF. However in this world, the way people call blood types hasn't been united yet so there seems to be places where they use A, B, or C instead.
D: ODACCHI!!!! Question!! So, from the bottom left of pg. 55 of vol. 62 were these guys (↓), and, could it be possible that they originated from this guy (→)?
It's gotta be that, right?! When I looked up "ugly animals", this dude (→) popped right up!!!!! How did Odacchi find this guy (→)? Could it be Odacchi also looked up "ugly animals"? Odacchi, you're a really bored person with lots of time in your hands like me, aren't you... P.N. Currently in class
O: Yes. You are correct. It's this guy. But that does not necessarily mean I look up crazy shit like that. Although I do look up crazier things. This fellow is known as the blobfish, and you can pretty much always find him in books about deep-sea fish. He's quite unique, after all. Of course, they aren't as huge as ships as shown in my works. It is a type of deep-sea fish around 60 cm that actually exists. The fish that Luffy eats with Mayonnaise in chapter 654 is also this guy.

D: So recently you've been doing a lot of drawings of characters as children, so I thought why not ask for one of child-Perona. So, pardon me, but would you be so kind as to draw Perona as a child? (Absalom, Cindry, and Hogback, too) P.N. Witch Princess Eustass Luna
O: Alrighty.
(T.N.: Top left- Hogback, Top right- Absalom, Bottom left- Cindry, Bottom right- Perona)
D: Oda sensei, hello! The young mermaids in the towns and coves are all beauties, aren't they? So, the question is, what did Ms. Kokoro look like when she was young? Please draw me a picture!!
O: Sure thing--. That's it for this SBS~. See you in the next volume!! Ah, and one more corner before the volume ends.

-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 67.

D: Oda-sensei!! This starter sentence has always been a dream of mine. Please allow me to say it today ♡ *breatheeeee~~...*
"I WILL START THE BBQ!!!" P.N. muKO
O: Woah, woah, that meat right there, you've been grilling it way too long, it's getting burnt--!! Ah, the bliss of chugging down a cold beer in this spectacular outdoor nature, and along with everyone..
A FRICKIN' (B)AR(B)E(Q)UE JUST MERRILY STARTED OUT OF NOWHERE---!!! (SHOCK)
...Uhhm... first off, I'd like to say only the "B" is accurate. And then, well, if the starter sentence was like this, everyone would trip on their feet and not be able to properly sta--
D: TAKE THIS! ODACCHI.
"FRANKEN GENERAL WATCH-YOUR-STEP" P.N. Yousuke
O: So close, so close--!! (shock) (sweat)
The SBS did actually start with that BBQ!
D: There's something that has been bothering me for a while now. That is... "When in the world will Sanji's wanted poster get a real legitimate photograph?!" I am a proud Sanji fan! That is why I feel incredibly sorry for the poor guy. And so this time, I, the proud Sanji fan, have drawn a new portrait for Sanji, so from here on please use this for the poster instead♡ Here you go♡ Tee hee♡ P.N. Nanao Style
O:WHATISTHIS!!! (SHOCK)This is terrible!
Look closely at Sanji's face! Do you realize that his eyebrows should be swirled in the opposite direction at the current moment?! Please properly redraw that tail! So terrible!
D: "USOPP WAGO--MU"
How's that! P.N. Kounosuke loves baseball
O: Ouch! (sweat) Did you really do that just now?! That's merely a threatening technique! Owwww~~! You stung me right in my butt crack!!
D: Hello, hello, my greetings to Odacchi!! When I was staring at the "lady who passes out tissues" in front of the station with perverted eyes, there was this whole thing about Jinbe's plan of turning Luffy into a hero!! So in the end, WHAT BECAME OF THAT PLAN NAME? P.N. God of manga
O: SOMETHING ISN'T RIGHT HERE.
The first half of this question JUST ISN'T RIGHT.
Anyway, for the "plan name" that Jinbe seemed to be concerned about had several candidates such as these. "The Great Straw Hat Hero Plan", "I luvluv humans plan", and "The Fuck History Plan". Hmm, even with these ideas, I'm not too sure what would become of them. Maybe they didn't need a plan name after all?
D: Odaaaaaaaaaachi! Odacchi big news, big news! You see that reaaaally cute mermaid girl with a hood in volume 65, chapter 644 (p152)? Do you? Do you?? Could it possibly be that that child ha, h-h-h-h-happens to be.. ♡♡MADAME SHYARLY♡♡? by The one who will become a pirate is me!
O: Yes, you are correct. Even though Madame Shyarly is known as a Madame, she is still actually 29 years of age. Her brother Arlong being 41 and Hody 30, Shyarly is from the same generation as Hody, yes--. Since Arlong was abandoned by his father in Fish-Man District as a small child, he never really knew the faces of his parents, but around the time Arlong became 15, a man claiming to be the father of Arlong came along with a little girl from a different mother. That would be Shyarly. When Shyarly was 4 years old, it is said that she accurately predicted the start of "the Great Age of Pirates".
D: In volume 64 and 65, when Nami and Robin see Franky's new techniques, they took on in silence. Is that really alright? Why don't they get excited? P.N. CPDX
O: Right. Penname-CPDX-kun, you're 17 now, right? There's something you need to learn now. Men and women are completely different creatures. It's a big mistake to think that they can understand each other just because they're both human. No matter who tries to explain the coolness of robots to a girl, the message will never get through. Those people like things that sparkle, things that are soft and fluffy, and things that I don't understand. We could never comprehend those things, right? So, yes, it's alright. Even when looking at such a cool thing, they'll just stare with blank expressions. Do your best, Franky!!
D: Why does Law, and not Kato-san, get to be a Shichibukai? P.N. Rou
O: Well you can tell just by looking at the shape of his nose that Kato-san isn't human. His bounty is about2, right?
D: Oda-sama. Hellooooo. In the third panel of page 151 in volume 65, there's a squid standing next toIkaros, so could he be "Daidalos"? That's right, that's gotta be right, that's surely how it is!!!? P.N. Chagero's Friend Iwaken
O: You don't have to push the issue so hard- yes, that's right! He was still alive at the time, and those two were best buddies. But Daidalos ended up dying and becoming dried squid in an unforeseen accident. Because of the trauma from that incident, Ikaros developed a fear of becoming dried squid himself whenever he sees fire.

D:Oda sensei, have you ever wiped your butt with sandpaper? Penname- Sara Mama
O: No, I haven't!!!
D:Hello Oda Sensei. In chapter 655 of volume 66 in the scene where everyone is eating deep sea fish bento boxes, Robin says "Delicious," Luffy and Usopp are going "munch munch," but only Zoro is going "crunch crunch." Did Sanji put razor-blades in Zoro's bento, as promised? Penname- Gillette
O: hnnnnn....AMAZING!!Thank you for reading so carefully! I mean, I drew that while thinking that it wouldn't really be that bad if nobody ever noticed, but in chapter 653 of volume 66, we have this scene. There's usually no reason to use a crunchy sound effect when characters are eating bento, but I felt that Sanji would surely put the razors and poison in Zoro's bento, so I decided to draw it in that way. The serious nature of their fight is what makes it interesting.
D:Wanze, who debuted in the Water 7 arc, is a character who made a strong impact. From some time ago, my little sister has taken to imitating him. She says, "Ra-ramen kenpo?" while waving both hands, and it's getting irritating. She says it's "Wanze Disease," but how can I cure such a malady? Penname- Ai
O: But how *wave wave* can I cure such a malady *wave wave*?' Ouch!! Ai-chan, that hurts! Quit it with the violence!! ...Ai-chan is mad!! Well, Wanze sure does bring back memories. Who cares about curing?- everyone, let's do it together! Just wave your hands vertically next to your face, stick out your lower lip, make a strange face, and go around mimicking people! You'll get punched for sure!

D:Recently I've found someone I'm interested in ♡ ♡ . But I'm worried because I don't know how to properly "attack". Oda sensei, please give me advice!! Penname- Dekiru
O: "Something like 'Gomu Gomu Bazooka' probably has enough destructive power, I think! You'll take down that person you're interested in for sure! (^^)
D:I've got a question. When Smoker was in Tashigi, she was wearing a "Nothing" bra, but is that because Smoker took it off, or because... from the start... she... I'm so turned-on I can't sleep at night! Please tell me, Sensei! Penname- Kumakoro
O: No-bra is pretty great, huh <3 For sure. To get to the bottom of this, let's ask Smoker himself. Vice Admiral Smoker, please tell us!
S:I tore it off. Who wants to know.
O: Ah.... Ah.... Got it. Thank You. -and that's how it is!!
D:Pleased to meet you, Oda-chi! Heso!! I'll try to make this quick, but... I noticed a certain one of Oda-chi's policies? Or is it poliswees?!! Oda-chi... you don't seem to write lines in your own handwriting on the side as supplements to character's speech bubbles!? Other manga-ka do it a lot, but... please explain this for me!! Penname- Myaari
O: Ohh. Yes. Lines written in speech bubbles vs. lines written outside them- good job noticing. I did the latter back when I was a newbie and even during the early days of serialization. But I made the conscious decision to stop doing that relatively early on, so you could call it a policy. Of course I don't mind it if other authors do it, but I thought that if I did that, the reader might see my handwritten characters while reading and suddenly become aware that there is an "author", so I stopped. While reading my manga, I want you to forget about my existence.

D:In chapter 654, Chopper turns down Nami's invitation to join her in the bath, saying "I wiped myself down the day before yesterday", right? Is it because he's a boy? Or a fruit user? Or maybe... because he's an animal? I'm also interested in the bathing information for the rest of the Strawhat crew. Penname- Katana Roman
O: Well, in Chopper's case, I have a strong feeling that perhaps it's because he's an animal. Wiping his body down pretty much counts as a bath for him. Sometimes, the men of the crew have a Great Bath Party together and get really rowdy. Chopper gets invited to bathe with the ladies a lot, but he prefers the men's parties.
D:Hello, Ei-chan. My little sister said, "Robin is always revealing her breasts; she must really like doing that, huh". So I told her, "No no, it's just because that Oda-chan guy who writes One Piece really likes breasts so he draws exposed ones a lot". Am I right in my assessment? *picks nose* Penname- I like Oda-chan
O: Yes. I have here a very rude letter.OF COURSE I DRAW THEM BECAUSE I LIKE THEM!!How rude of you to doubt me!!
D:Because Oda-chi can't keep it together anymore, we're ending SBS here. Penname- Eel now
O: Okay, see you in the next volume! There's some info about the movie at the end of this one.
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 68.

D: Oda-chi, konichiwankosoba(TN: wanko soba is a type of noodle dish. The reader is making a portmanteau with konichiwa).Recently, Oda-chi hasn't been able to start SBS by himself, and I'm not going to let him do it this time either!! SBS! Shall we begin? P.N. Tatsuumi
O:What should I do? Should I start? Not start? Hold on!!
D: Oda sensei. I've been thinking, "Just once I'd like to try to do the title call for my beloved question corner of this beloved manga!!" With that thought, I've been practicing really hard. Please listen. SBS!- Let's begi-buuuu!!!P.N. Matsumura D. Takuya*(TN: A play on the Japanese idol, Kimura Takuya)
O:You said that with your ass!! We're off to a smelly start...
D: This is a bit sudden, but please say "penis" ten times! Do it quickly! There's no time! P.N. Atsuuma
O:Penispenispenispenispenispenispenispenispenispenis.
D: Quiz time. Who's this? P.N. Atsuuma
O:Hmm? Who indeed... Is he a popular character? Well he's got a big nose, so is he someone who appeared in a novel byAkutagawa Ryunosuke*?...The answer is...
Answer is Penismomizou
O: As if I'd know that!!! What the hell!!
TN: Author who's most famous for "Rashomon". His second short story was "The Nose", in which the main character has a long, dangly nose.
D: Oda-sensei, hello!!! This is sudden, but what are you thinking now? P.N. Chiko
O:Ehh. I'm thinking erotic thought that have to do with the Japanese government.
*It's been a while
D: Is it really true that this guy is now aWarlord of the Sea, after the two-year time skip!? P.N. My info source is my big brother
O:You've been revived!!! It's been a while-NOT!!What, you've grown a bit of a beard and look a bit more like an adult!? Get out of here!!
D: Oda-senseeeei!! This is my first postcard to you. I'll be quick about it; here's my question. In the New World,Frankycan change his hairstyle at will, but how many styles does he have? Please tell me. P.N. Ryuusei
O:An infinite amount!!! We'll have fun with this from here on out.
D: Oioioioioioi, good day to you.Usopp's got those "pop greens" and all, but what would he do if they ever ran out? P.N. Girls with short hair are the best ♡
O:Right. I've been getting this question a lot, for a while now. I thought about showing the answer in the actual comics, but I haven't had that sort of chance. There's actually a scene concerning this in the screenplay of the movie, "Film Z", which comes out in December. Everyone was worried because what he shoots are seeds, right? But it's alright. At the back ofSunny-Go, Usopp made a flower bed called "Usopp's Garden" where he mass produces pop greens. There's a scene in the movie where he's spraying insecticide, so those of you who see it can confirm. I'd like to include something about it in the comic as well.
D: Yoss, Oda-chi! Are you drawing manga? The truth is, I've counted all the exclamation marks that appear in One Piece!! Amazing, huh? Including stuff like "!?" and the marks at the end of sounds like "DON!!!" as of chapter 636, there've been 150,096. In other words, an average of 236 per chapter... Amazing, huh, Oda-tsu ♡ P.N. Pomepomu
O:...!!... you really counted them all... "But why?"... is something I would ask if I were a thoughtless jerk! Yes! Exclamation points! Right, thank you!!!!!!!!!!
D: Please answer my super question in a super way. Oda-chi! I super-dont-understand the meaning of "FR-U" inFranky's new weapon, "Black Rhino FR-U IV". I super-want-to-know. By Match and Takeshi
O:Yes. "FR-U", is it? It's like this: "FR (Franky Shogun's)-U (ude [TN: ude means "arm"])". When the Black Rhino FR-U IV transforms, it becomes the arms forFranky Shogun.

D: Oda-sensei, hello. In regards toSanji, I feel that he looks likeLeonardo DiCaprio-sanfrom the western movie, "Romeo and Juliet". My friends say I'm dead wrong. Is Sanji's appearance based on someone in particular?? P.N. Noel
O:People used to guess DiCaprio a lot, in the past. But the truth is that Sanji has a much more unusual model. I might not go as far as to say "model", but I hoped to have a bit of this person's vibes come through. It'sSteve Buscemi, as he appeared in the movie "Reservoir Dogs". Cool, huh? Someone at Bandai was the only one to guess correctly, a while back.
D: Oda-kun, is it alright if I touchNami's boobs? P.N. Fake Tamori
O:What are you talking about!? Are you nuts!?
D: Eh!!? What!!!? Say that one more time please!!!! P.N. Haribo The Third
O:Yes, well... What are you talking about!? Are you nuts!?
D: Is the fact thatLuffydoesn't shrink after usingGear 3now because Oda-chi is a pervert/transformed, or because Luffy has improved? Please tell me!! P.N. I'm Legend
O:It's because Luffy has improved. I don't know what you mean by the former option. You. Through his training, controllingGear 2and Third has become easier for Luffy. When I told the anime staff "He doesn't shrink anymore", they cried out with joy, "Oh thank god". I'm also grateful because that was a pain for me too. Thank you Luffy!!
D: Greetings Oda-chi ♡ Appearing in SBS is like a dream for me. Anyway, I have tons of questions I want to ask, but here's the one I'm most curious about, no doubt about it! Please tell me the ages and heights of the rookies ♡ I'll be waiting until the end of time P.N. Lui
O:Okay okay. This is how they were two years ago. Just add two years to those who've reappeared in the present. And go ahead and assume that their heights haven't changed. Because of her ability, Bonney's age is just an estimation.
Urouge,Apoo,Drake,Hawkins,Kid,Killer,Law,Bonney,Capone.
D: Right beforeAcedied, he couldn't speak very loudly, so he asked for his final words to be told to everyone, afterwards. DidLuffyever end up passing on the message "Thank you for loving me" to everyone? P.N. Otohimememe
O:I see. He really did promise that, yeah. But as events unfolded, it doesn't seem like Luffy was able to meet with theWhitebeard Pirates' crew members. But, that's alright. Those crew members loved Ace and went to war as a result of that love, so not a single one of them would resent not directly receiving any words of thanks. At that time, Ace had a different wish. The thing that he made Luffy promise to "tell everyone afterwards" was what, exactly? To survive. So I think that those last few words that he managed to utter reached more people at that time than we could have ever imagined.
D: Oda-chi! I went to see the One Piece Exhibition. At that time,Chapter 668, "Pirate Alliance" was the chapter in Jump!!! In the "From the Decks of the World" picture, there were three sake cups in front of Ace's grave!!! Is it alright to think THAT person visited Ace's grave?? I expect that only Luffy and that person really know for sure... P.N. Hairdresser Gonke
O:Right, this is the image from Chapter 668 that's in this very volume, but when it appeared in Jump, the advertisement messages covered up some parts and readers couldn't see it all very well. But at that time, the One Piece Exhibition was in Tokyo, and the person who wrote this letter went and saw the original image to confirm. You can also confirm it with this very volume. As for what you should think when you see this, well, I'll leave that to your imaginations for now.
D: Going along with the recent SBS Children Series, I'd like to see theMarines'Hina-san,Smo-yan, andTashigi-chanwhen they were kids!! P.N. Kumakoro
O:Ok.
D: Nice to meet you! I tried doing something interesting that I'd like to see go into SBS! *laughs* I tabulated how much of the art inUsopp's Gallery Pirate Crewhas come from each prefecture!! Here are the top five:1. Tokyo (219 times), 2. Osaka (143 times), 3. Kanagawa (142 times), 4. Saitama (139 times), 5. Chiba (120 times)Tokyo is really something, huh!! It was really a pain counting them all! P.N. Nao
O:Wow- thanks and good work!! But wait wait what!? The number of exclamation marks... the number of postcards... has counting things suddenly come into fashion!? I'll go ahead and count "things that I've lost"!! [T.N. This is Jinbe's wording, to Luffy, when he said "Don't just count the things you've lost! Those things are gone!"] One, two, three, fourrr ...fiiiive... ooh... let's end... SBS... *hic*... now!! *sniffle*...!! You'll find info about the movie... at the end of the volume... *hic*.
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 69.

(Art is from HARU of Nagano Prefecture. Text in art:"From the mustache!?")
D: Before we begin the SBS, I,Eiichiro Oda, have an announcement. At last... I have achieved my heart's desire and eaten the "ERO ERO NO MI"! Guhehe. P.N. I'm Greenpeace
O: Stop pretending to be me!!You said "guhehe". You're the worst!!
D: Odacchi!! Is it alright if I ask a serious question? You'll answer this question right? Right? It's fine, isn't it?? Then here is my question.
O:I like them very much ♡Guhehe ♡
Whaa!! Sorry, I didn't mean that. Not now! (*sweat*) What was that trap. The breast band is the usual sort of thing people trick me with. Ahh... that's right. The SBS has begun.
D: About Usopp's nose, is it achikuwa? Usopp's trying to listen!! P.N. Howaichi
O:That's not right, is it? It's not a chikuwa, isn't that right Usopp-kun?
Usopp:It's a chikuwa.
O:It's really a chikuwa!!! (It's been 15 years and I didn't know.) Guhehe ♡
D: Here's a quiz, guess the answer based on the appearances from behind!! Which one isVergo?
※Aside from Vergo, Ⓐ, Ⓑ and Ⓒ includeBon-chanandLulu. P.N. N.I.K.U.
O:I'll give you my answers!Ⓐ is Vergo with a hamburger stuck to him!Ⓑ is Vergo having eaten it!Ⓒ is Vergo with a shuriken stuck to his head!
D: Answer: Ⓐ (Ⓑ is Bon-chan, Ⓒ is Lulu)
D: Hello Odacchi! I have a doubt about the Doku Doku no Mi, is it a Paramecia or a Logia?
O:Very good question. Normally, Doku Doku no Mi is confused as a Logia, because it seems to make its user a poison man capable of becoming such. However, it is no more than a somewhat different Paramecia, because its user can generate all kinds of poisons, but not transform into it. In this case, your current user, Magellan, covers your body with poison, and becomes immune to all types of poisons, in addition to providing a kind of protection against physical attacks. It hurts your side effect, poor Magellan spends more time in the bathroom than anywhere else!
(Art is from Bonio of Aichi Prefecture)
D: In a very cool scene in chapter 656, Zoro used his “Shi Shishi Sonson” to beat the dragon, but in your “Wanted” collection, in the story “Monsters,” the scene where the samurai Ryuuma kills a dragon is pretty similar! Did you have that in mind at the time? P.N.- Ono Rose Town Tribe
O:Yes. Good job on noticing something from so long ago. When writing the Punk Hazard dragon scene, I thought back to my story, “Monsters,” from almost 20 years ago. The protagonist Ryuuma, who was Zoro’s inspiration, ended up chopping the dragon’s neck in a giant panel. I didn’t go as far as re-reading it, but I recalled that scene and decided to do another big panel action scene. It’s neck-chopping from when I was 19 and 38 years old, respectively. Please compare them (*laughs*).
D: Before the timeskip (in volume 61), Nami was reading a book on Weatheria and said, “An island where it rains lightning!” This lightning island… could it be where the G-5 ship had stopped in chapter 655 of volume 66? Please tell me! If you don’t, I’ll do the “pew pew pew”!! P.N.- P.S. I love Law
O:“Pew pew pew!!”... don’t make fun of the beam!! But that’s right. It’s one of the three islands that the needles pointed to (the first needle to be exact), from Fish-Man Island, and the one that Luffy wanted to go to most. It’s the island where it rains lightning, Raijin Island. Near the end of volume 60, it’s also the island that Urouge was headed for. Although Smoker’s intuition about Luffy’s mentality was spot-on, the Sunny Go met with the Whitestrom and ended up at the unmarked island, Punk Hazard. If they had gone to Raijin Island, I wonder what kind of adventures the Strawhats might have had?
(Art is by Ryo of Wakayama Prefecture)
O:I'll address the following two postcards together.
D: Oda-sensei, I have a question. Please tell me the current profiles (birthday, height, age) of all of the members of the Straw Hat Pirates!
D: Oda-sensei! Please tell me the order in which the members of the Straw Hat Pirates joined the crew! I'm really grateful! P.N. Yoshikawa
O:New readers!! Yep, that's right. I didn't realize.One Piecehas been going for 15 years already. P.N. Maaa-kun is 10 years old. Then I'll tell you. When you grow up, try reading about the origins of the Straw Hat Pirates. The inset numbers are the order in which the crew members joined. This is the first time that the heights of the crew members two years later have been released in the volumes. By the way, before theThousand Sunny, the ship they sailed in was theGoing Merry.
O:Their individual bounties can be found at the beginning of the volume, on the first character introduction page.
(Art is from Satomo of Yamanashi Prefecture)
D: Okay, Odacchi! Please tell me the name and knacks of that strange way of running Zoro, Kinemon, Sanji, and Brook use!! P.N. Match and Takeshi
(image missing- Text:DON. New admiral, "Kazutoshi")
O: Hmm. Well, ignoring the new admiral Kazutoshi portion, you're talking about when they're running real fast like "Dabadabadaba". I mean, back in the day, pretty much everybody used this method in manga and anime to convey running. I guess I don't really see it being used these days. Basically, they're just running so incredibly fast that you can see the afterimages of their legs and they end up looking like they have multiple legs. As for the name, I shall name this move the "DabaDabaDash". The way to use it is to simply, move your legs at an expeditious rate. And while you're at it, please continuously keep screaming "DABADABADABADABA!!". It'll be a popular move in the next IAAF World Championships.
D: Odacchi--! I'm afraid I've just realized something. The names of "Foxfire Kinemon" and his son "Momonosuke"—you took them from the superstar of the Showa Era,Mr. Nakamura Kinnosuke, didn't you... Probably!! How's that!! P.N. Sacred Tree-kun
O: Yess! You are correct. He was famous for his roles in period dramas, and I'm an huge fan. 'Cause, like, I'd be a lot more pumped about drawing them if they were kind of references to him, y'know what I'm saying!? This is for the future and I can't hold it in so I'll just say it here, but Luffy and the crew will eventually go to the Wano Kingdom. Oh my gooosh, ever since back in the day, I just can't wait to draw that moment~~. All of my interests may end up being exposed when that happens. Heeheehee.
D: One Piece has incredibly many characters, but please tell us which character is the most difficult to draw for you. P.N. Noel
O: Let's see--. Franky Shogun is a pretty big pain in the ass to draw. I love designing robots and all, but redrawing them over and over isn't really a forte of mine. But that's robot talk. If we were to talk about just humans, I'd say women take longer to draw than men for me. Especially black-haired women. For black hair, there's this process called "tsuya-beta" (negative drawing). It's a real bugger having to color in with a brush pen whilst keeping the negatives, or the gloss, in the hair. With that said, my answer is Hancock. Knowing she had to look like the most beautiful woman in the world was the toughest part of all.
(Art by Nakahara, Michi from Tottori Prefecture)
This section is filled with extensive vulgar, filthy expressions; hence, those of the weak minds or delicate hearts are strongly advised to skip this portion and continue on to enjoy the rest of this volume.
P.N. PATAN
O: Huh...?(sweatdrop)What's with the warning sign? Wow, this offends me! Alright! Then how's this, I shall answer these questions with class and dignity in order to prevent people from thinking of this section as vulgar. Hum. Hum hum... now then... begin with the inquiries......
D: Sir Oda Eroichiro, greetings. Why did Caesar demand to have Law's heart? Logically speaking, I feel like his dick would be so much more of a vital body part to lose.        P.N. ikeyan
O: ...Hum. Indeed... thewilly(classy) would also be a vital body part. However, how would the imagery turn out looking like? Law holding his willy, and Law holding his heart. Which has the better impact...? For instance, Law... They say that he, in order to join theSeven Warlords of the Sea, delivered 100 hearts to the Marine Headquarters... But... if he had delivered 100 willies instead, by now, Law would have become a Warlord.
D: Vergo can use Busoshoku on his entire body, right? Could this mean that his "manhood" can also use Busoshoku?   P.N. New Kama
O: Hum... It's possible. As a man... that is quitefantástico.
D: Mr. Smoker, how could you tear off Tashigi's bra in her body! (From Volume 68 SBS) Unbelievable. If it was in the way, you should have just worn it on your head like Oda-sensei!   P.N. Yumasai
O: ...Hum. ...Would you like to join me? Smoker-kun...
(Art by Pipoaian of the Saitama Prefecture)
D: Oda-sensei, please draw the appearances ofMagellan,Hannyabal,SadiandSaldeathof Impel Down from when they were children. P.N. Jiikema Yaoto
O: Alright. How about I drawDominotoo?
Marry Me ♡
D: Odacchi x2!! If "Marriage ProposalLola" ate theSube Sube no Miwhat would happen to her?P.N. Nasuo
O:I doubt she'd really look all that much different, you know? But her skin will become incredibly smooth (sube sube)!
(Art by Nakahara, Michi of Tottori Prefecture. Text in image-Haredas:"Oioioioioioioioioioioioioioioioioioioioioiyoungmiss"Nami:"Shaddap!")
'D: Odacc-HI!! Odacchi... What did you have for breakfast? Your face has a nice glow to it. Speaking of breakfast, in volume 68 page 106, could Vergo's breakfast have been potato fries...?? Well?     'P.N. KBBQ straight from the morning, bro
O: Man, just about everything gets stuck onto that man, doesn't it. I think it was probably his usual hamburger meal. Hamburger, fries, and a shake (strawberry flavor). This is what Vergo eats every morning for breakfast. Also, my glowing face is probably just left over illumination from the previous meal.
D: About the mystery of Nami-san's New World bust size from volume 66, I would like to provide my opinion as an employee at LADIES' INNER. Nami-san's bust size is most likely a "J Cup". There is a possibility that she may have even grown bigger than this. ...If my calculations are correct, her band measurement is 63 cm, and her bust is 98 cm. If we were to use these measurements, she would end up being a "K"; however, right now in Japan, there is no such thing as a "K" cup. She'd have to order from overseas. Oui, in other words, non-standardized!!! Well, personally, I'd say that Nami-san is a"Nami Cup". (Boiing)
P.N. Shimizu Chageburo's secret fan
(Translator's Note- LADIES' INNER is a Japanese female underwear chain store.)
O: Alright. Boys, the day has finally come. This fire that readers started on volume 66. Thank you all for submitting these countless letters. Sanji-kun! Has your nosebleed stopped yet!? Now, give them the presentation!
Sanji:Yeah... sorry about last time. So it's Nami-san and Robin-chan's current 3 sizes, right? They did in fact grow in size, but don't be tricked!! In these 2 years, what really improved is their "sexiness"!
Nami- B: 98 (J Cup), W: 58, H: 88
Robin- B: 100 (J Cup), W: 60, H: 90
O: Ahh, fantastic! This is great! So easy to remember! Thank you, Sanji-kun! Ahh I see, so this is what the "Nami Cup" is like. So awesome.
Nami:What are you doing? If you're gonna use my body as one of your conversation topics, then here... hand it over(sparkle)
O: Runnnnnnnnnn!! Dabadabadabadaba...
Wheeze...wheeze...okay then...wheeze wheeze... let's end here. The reason why there's so little content at the end of the volume this time is because I recklessly begged for a 12 chapter release this time. I got yelled at by Shueisha, scolding me to never expect something like this again. But... I just really wanted you all to read up to chapter 690... I'll do my best from now on to have less lag in my storytelling... See you in the next volume~~!!
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 70.

D: Who's going to slip in the first "Start the SBS!!" this volume? I can't wait to find out...Oh! It's me. --Nomi
O: You just said it!! That's my face on the right!!
D: Take this, Odacchi!Land of Nothing! --I'm the Master
O: Urk!! I... I can't...!!Hrg... can't... breathe...!! I... can breathe?Okay, next question.
D: Um... I have a problem. MyOne Piece-loving friend keeps telling me that I look just likeKoby. What should I do about this? (cries)You have to take responsibility!(angry) --Yuminami Kobayashi Pigeon
O: What?! Wow, you're really angry! What's so bad about that? Koby has gotten so much cooler lately! I just... can't take responsibility for this. I mean, who's saying this to you?
D: Odacchi!! Hey, Odacchi! One of my friends totally looks like Koby!!! But he's really angry at you because of it, so watch out!!! Anyway, here's my question; In chapter 653... --Yuminami Kobayashi Cat
O: Wait a second!!! It's you!!I was totally getting chewed out because you keep teasing the kid in the previous letter!! What's the big idea?! And looking at your pen names... you two seem to get along just fine!
O: Well, since I didn't answer the last question from the previous section, let's start with that.
D: In chapter 653, whenShirahoshiand the crew promised to go on a walk in a real forest the next time they met, why didZoroandFrankynot do the pinky promise?! --Yuminami Kobayashi Cat
O: Hmm... seems like many people were bothered by this. There's no real deep meaning to this, but based on the path the story traveled and the individual characters' actions, it seemed like maybe those two in particular hadn't had much interaction withShirahoshi, so why would they feel the need to hold out their pinkies? Of course, given that their captain and crewmates made that promise, I'm sure Zoro and Franky felt just like the rest of them, don't worry.
D: In chapter 692, there's a scene whereNamiandLuffyreunite. You can see a stocky-looking sailor who appears to be carryingTashigion his shoulder. That's her, right?! Why is she riding him? She told Zoro, "Let me down when we find my men." Is Zoro really that worried about her health? Heehee. --Someta
O: Well spotted. Yes, that is Tashigi, but that wasn't on Zoro's orders. I think Tashigi being embarrassed by Zoro was simply that she didn't want her subordinates to see her being helped by a pirate, but being carried by her own men is different. I suppose she might be embarrassed in a different way, though. I don't really know how young women think.
D: In the last panel of the tenth page of Chapter 602 (Volume 61), she says, "Creatures I've never seen before! One, two, three, four..." So that would be Brook, Franky, Chopper, and who? --Chopper's Friend's Owner
O: I'm assuming it's Sanji with a bizarre look on his face.
D: Hello! I'm usually a graphic-novel-only reader, but I heard about how incredible this color chapter cover was, and rushed out to buy the issue of Jump with chapter 691 (^_^). And I just so happened to spot, on the right edge over Brook's shoulder, among all the younger versions of the Marine officers, what appears to be the same person who was to the right of Ivankov on the page after Whitebeard's order to "back up Luffy with all you've got." Is that really the same person?!! Did he go from the Marines to being a pirate?!! --Anri
O: That's very well spotted. So how does the same face show up in both the Marines and a pirate crew? Well, there was a fellow originally introduced in the book One Piece Green (in Japan) as "Pirate Captain Andre," a member of Whitebeard's fleet. But the people I drew in the Chapter 691 cover illustration are all past versions of Marine officers. The guy with the same face shown here is actually still in the Marines, and his name is Candre. A few years ago during the Paramount War arc, I'm pretty sure I drew Candre as well, fighting on the side of the Marines--search for him if you're bored sometime! You see, the twin brothers Andre and Candre were forced to fight against each other in the big war!!It's a very big and pointless story!!But thanks for spotting them!
D: Odacchi, speak in Kansai dialect! --Enoki
O: Whaaat? I cain't do that! It's jes' plain impossible, ya jerk! I cain't do it!! Don't make me whupyer behind!!
D: The crew's hair has to grow out on those long voyages, right? Does someone give the rest haircuts? Nami or Robin, perhaps? --I Want to be a Hairdresser
O: True, their hair does grow out. So who gives haircuts on the crew? Why, it's Zoro. He turns on the rest and goes, "Tiger Trap!!" Just kidding!! What the hell, man?!! I'm gonnawhupyer behind!! Shuer yerpiehole!! Why, I oughtta!! The real answer is prolly Usopp or Robin. Maybe I should draw a heart-warmin' picture of a haircut someday.
D: Can I drink the bath water after Nami's been in it? --ChageroKiyomizu
O: What the hell, man?!! What in tarnation are you thinkin'?! This is a manga for all ages!! Excuse me, officer! This man's a pervert, can ya arrest him for me? Huh? What'm I holding, ya say? Why, it's a pretty lady's flute. What's wrong with lickin' it whiles I walk around plum-naked? What--hey! Not me! He's the pervert, I swear! No, stop! I got deadlines ta meet!What?! Impersonation of a Kansai resident? What's that s'pose ta mean?! Who cares?! No, look, the readers put me up to it...
D: I have a request for Odacchi! I want to see the childhood looks for the following Whitebeard Crew folks: Whitebeard, Marco, Jozu, Vista, and Izo!!! --Arinko
O: Sure thing.
D: What do you think of how young people are driving cars less and less? --Maeda A.K.A. Kimotowa
O: Hmmmmm... Hmmmm. I don't care.
D: Tell me the name of the penguin Mr. Kuzan was riding! Is he related to the Galapagos penguin?! Was he treading water under the surface the entire time he was waiting for Mr. Kuzan?! He's so cute, I can't help but want to know more! Tell me!! --Kunugi
O: Yep, that's a big penguin. He's a member of the "super penguin" species, which is very adept at treading water. He fits well with Kuzan's Hie Hie Style, and has been accompanying him since he left the Marines. His name is Camel. Also, he's a hardboiled dude, so don't call him cute or you'll get burned.
D: I have a question. Is the character of Borsalino based on Kunie Tanaka's role of "Borsalino 2" from the MovieTruck Yaro: Bakuso Ichiban-boshi? --AkuaNoichigo
O: You saw that movie?! That's fantastic. It's quite an old film. I wonder if it's out on DVD and Blu-ray now. I have the entire Truck Yaro series on VHS tapes. You are correct, Borsalino comes from that role. There's an Alain Delon film called Borsalino as well, and I suspect that Kunie Tanaka's character was named in homage to that movie. Alan Delon's a super-cool actor too. His movies are older, so most people probably haven't seen them. I don't mind, though. I did this to satisfy myself. That's all for this installment of the SBS! See you again soon!!
Translated byVIZ Media.
Translations may have been modified since the original versions.
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 71.
It's Vergo-san...
O:Hey everyone! I'd like to give an energetic welcome in this volume too - "LET'S BEGIN THE SBS!!"
D: Fix that. It's SBS-san-P.N. Kimurin
O:Oh!! S...sorry... Let's begin... the SBS-san...
Empress Doncock - has strength in the same league as that of Aokiji, Kizaru, Akainu and Sengoku.
D: Question. Odacchi, I have a question. Since when in his life did Franky become a pervert? (^▽^) And is the new Shichibukai this guy? → P.N. Minced Sausage
O:Um, no?? Oh, and Franky was a pervert since his previous life.
D: Odacchi, I found him!!! It was unexpectedly easy. I'm telling you, it's that guy, that guyCandre! Volume 57, page 108, panel 3, second from the left, it has to be!! If it's wrong, then there's something wrong with your head, Odacchi. Right? It has to be!!!! P.N. Teagwecheikei
O:Yup, there he is. Last volume I asked whoever was bored to find this guy, Candre. That's him.
D: Hello! This is regarding the twin brothers "AndreandCandre" mentioned in theVolume 70 SBS. Is this referencingInoue Yōsui-sanfrom around his debut over 40 years ago? His hair was also an afro at around that time too. P.N. Used to be a guitar-kid
O:Yep, that's it. Although I got the name from that, I actually know nothing about "Andre Candre". I just know that name from television. You must know it because you're 56 years old, right. By the way, the reason I gave him the name Andre is because I thought he looked like the pro wrestler calledAndré the Giant. Yeah... there wasn't much thought behind it (*laugh*).
D: RegardingChapter 700... Oops...! Good evening, Odacchi! Regarding Chapter 700, while Luffy and the others are on the way to Dressrosaroba, we can see animals that look like sea rabbits. What does Law like to eat other thanOnigiri? P.N. Hasumomo
O:Well, ummm, grilled fish! Alright, next question.
D: Question. Robin always says frightening things in front of everyone. But in her own thoughts, she oftentimes thinks of fun stuff like "Cats" or "Dress-roba"(T.N. - Dress-roba is a pun on Dressrosa, meaning "Dress-Old Woman"). Why doesn't Robin talk about these thoughts with her crew to make them laugh? I love how Robin is like this. P.N. Y.O
O:I see, that's true. From what I think, from thePunk Hazard Arcwhen she toldFranky(inChopper's body) not to ever make such a strange face in Chopper's body again, Robin probably likes cute things. But even though she likes cute things, she's a bit dark/creepy herself, so if she tries to put these cute thoughts to words there is a chance it may come out as scary/ominous. That's the kind of woman that Robin is.
Luffy (Haoshoku Haki), Zoro (Busoshoku Haki), Sanji (Kenbunshoku Haki)
D: This might be out of nowhere, but who in theStraw Hat Piratescan useHaki? It's bothering me and I can't activate my "Love Hurricane".
O:It's these three. Their specialty haki color is in the parentheses.
D: InChapter 701,Lawclaimed that one of his crew drew the map that he shared!! Is that crew member by any chance thatBepoguy!!? I ask this because at the bottom right of the map you can see a blurred paw print. It's him, right? P.N. TakaAki・T
O:Yes it is, of course. Bepo is the navigator of theHeart Piratesafter all. He drew that map.
D: Odacchi! In Volume 70,Chapter 700,Sanjimade onigiri for Law, who doesn't like bread. What was inside those onigiri? P.N. Natsuki
O:Well, the first onigiri had Tuna-mayonnaise inside. The second onigiri had okaka inside. And the last onigiri had super sour umeboshi inside. By the way, Law hates umeboshi. A few minutes later, he and Sanji got into an argument because of that.
D: What's the name of Law's sword? How many tattoos does Law-san have? Odacchi... please draw all of Law's tattoos!!!! (≧□≦)
O:OK, got it! Here are the drawing of Law's tattoos taken from my notes. → He has heart themed tattoos, but I wonder if there is a reason for that? The name of his sword isKikoku(鬼哭,Kikoku?, literally meaning "Demon's Cry"). It has no rank. It is a "cursed sword".
D: Is it possible to makekakigōriout ofAokiji? P.N. Baka-Inu
O:Yes, it's possible. After-all, he's ice. But, eating it might be a different story. He might return to Aokiji in your stomach and take control of you.
D: When my father, who lovesWhitebeard, comes home drunk every night and gets scolded by mother he responds "How could drinking something you love be bad for your body, gurarararara?" But, the next morning he's on his knees bowing down to my mother. How can my father be cooler? P.N. Biro & Akke
O:Hmmm, it was going well for him up to a certain point, but the next morning is pretty disgraceful. How about your mother also becomes Whitebeard and says "I will love my husband, even though he is an idiot." and forgives him?
D: Frequently, my cat will suddenly jump on my lap and it is very cute. My father (age 59) also frequently will suddenly place his head on my mother's lap and want her to clean his ears but is disliked for this. WHAT URGES THESE TWO TO USE PEOPLE'S LAPS AS PILLOWS? P.N. Neco Robin(TN The "Ni" of Nico Robin is replaced with the kanji for sleep)
O:It's kind of sad that these questions at the expense of fathers are continuing on like this. Well, I guess using people's laps as a pillow has its own appeal. It's the same calling that beckons the mountain climber to the mountain.
D: ODACCHI, DID YOU EAT TOILET PAPER THIS MORNING? P.N. Haribo Monet
O: Ah!!! There was toilet paper around my mouth, sorry about that.(TN: Vergo reference)
D: I thought of birthdays for Caesar and Monet! Caesar is April 9 and Monet is August 27! Is that OK? P.N. Nakamura Ida(TN: Both are puns. 4月 is April. 9日 is Ninth. 4月9日 can be read as "Shinokuni" using Japanese onyomi. Same with Monet. With a bit of effort 8月27日 can be read as "Become a Harpy".)

O: Yeah, sure. *Hojihoji* (TN: hojihoji is an onomatopoeia for picking your nose. Probably used in this case to signify that he couldn't care less.)
D: InChapter 700there is a reporter named "Absa", that's referring toAbsalomright? Right? And if you look closely, there's even the pirate ship. What other kinds of eroti... amazing articles... What other kinds of eroti... I mean, moving articles... What other kinds of erotic articles does he write? P.N. Makino♡LOVE
O: Yes, that is Absalom. How nostalgic. In fact, he was also at the Battle of Marineford. After the battle,Doflamingostated that something strange happened toMoria. I wonder why?Peronais also worried. Did Moria really die? The only thing that I can reveal right now is Absalom, going by the name "Absa", has been reporting a lot of big news using hisSuke Suke no Mi; this is true. He can take many interesting photographs with that ability. His articles are very popular right now.
Alright, with that I'm ending the EroBS. See you next volume!!
Translated bymynameisyonas.
Translations may have been modified since the original versions.
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 72.
D: Odacchi, Oddachi, Odacchi, good morning. By the way, let's begin the SBS! And now my question: On page 128 of Volume 31, the kids are asking for a story about the land of the dwarves, right? Right? RIGHT??? Please explain.P.N. Uekenger
O:Geez, you’ve got the momentum of an avalanche, don’t you? Starting the SBS, asking questions—I can’t get a word in! I’m glad you found this, though. Perhaps you might find the answer to your question in Chapter 713, which starts right over there (Points to the left side to the cover ofChapter 713) Give it a read.
D: When the crew left Punk Hazard, Franky’s shirt said “JK” on it... But he makes such a gross JK(TN: JK stands forjoshi-koseior female high schooler)!!!P.N. Sanji Ikari
O:Like OMG, I totally agree!!! He’s like, totally creepy!!! But the more I see those braided pigtails, the more I think they look good on him, and that’s totally gross too!!!
D: Good day, Odacchi. Is this what you meant by the Ancient Weapon Pluton?P.N. Dobin
O:Those are croutons, right? They’re not ancient weapons named after gods in that soup... They’re just croutons right?!! Just crispy little pieces of bread, right?!
D: It seems thatTrafalgar Law, in the midst of his alliance with the Straw Hats, gives them some nicknames. What are all the things he calls the various members of the crew like Zoro and Franky?P.N. Edward Yacchi
D: Mr. Oda, hello! If the Straw Hats were different prefectures of Japan, what they would be? For example, would Nami be from Ehime, I’d love to hear from you!P.N. T. Rina
O:Tell you what, I'll answer these both at the same time.

O:I think that should do it. Some of those prefectures were probably influenced by the voice actors’ hometowns. (laughs)
D: Odacchi, Odacchi!!! All I can see in the waves on p. 154 ofVolume 70is bunnies!!! What have you done to me?!!!P.N. Law-Loving Y, Law-Loving A’s Friend
O:Geez, what a long pen name! I’d like to tell you a story from Papua New Guinea. It is that when the rabbits ran out of food to eat, they tricked the fish into lining up so they could cross the sea on the backs of the fish. Do you supposed they made up that folk tale when they noticed the dancing white waves looked like rabbits? They do look like that sometimes, don’t they?
D: Hello, Mr. Oda! I have a question aboutRebeccathe gladiator. I couldn’t help that, perhaps due to your personal tastes, she is exposing quite a lot of skin. My question regards her bikini bottom. Is it possible that beneath that flap of cloth is a paradise of non-pantyness? I’m so curious about this, I can’t even put on any underwear.P.N. Tanpopo
O:Hmm, I see. I have a feeling that I shouldn’t answer this question. I know the answer, but I’ll keep it to myself! Sweet dreams!
D: Mr. Odacchi, howdy!Bartolomeo's so cool right? So what if his birthday is October 6? Y’know, since “to” can be 10, and “lo” is short for “roku”, or 6! Also, what are his height, age and place of birth details?P.N.One Pieceis the reason for living
O:Birthday?! Hmm... I dunno, should I use that? Sure, I guess. His height is 220 cm, he’s 24 years and he’s fromEast Blue.
D: “I’m so jealous ofLeothe Tontatta!”, my dad says. Apparently he wants to explore in Robin’s region B too. Can you help him explore her boo...er, region B without my mom finding out?P.N. Orika Kaykyoin
O:At first, I just wrote it as “Region Boobs” and laughed my ass off. But then my editor said it wasn’t allowed, and we got into a big fight. Since I’m out of shape, I wound up with a skull fracture. What’s wrong with the world that I’m the damn author and I can’t even write what I want! I get no respect, I tell ya!
D: Which one is a cat?P.N. Milk
O: Okay, um... Hmmm. Which one? Well they both look like cats to me... Plus, if those aren't cats, what would they be? Gonna guess... the left one? Let's check the answer... THEY DIDN'T WRITE AN ANSWER!!!
D: Take this, Odacchi! Western Lariat!!! And now, my question! InChapter 704, you introduced the former bounty huntersAbdullahandJeetAre they two former pro wrestlers,Abdullah the ButcherandTiger Jeet Singh? Abdullah's the one who gouged his forehead with forks! You like pro wrestling, Odacchi? Are you in the pro-wrestling generation?P.N. Joker
O:That lariat hurt! Well thanks, you just broke my neck. You're right, that is correct. Japan was in the midst of its pro wrestling craze when I was in elementary school. I loved that stuff, so this is my tribute to the greatest heels who ever menaced the ring, The Butcher and Jeet Singh!!
D: Nice to meet you, Mr. Oda! I've been wondering, isIdeo(NOTE: Originally writtenIdea, probably a typing error) the Boxer based from the old robot showIdeon?P.N. Astro Robo Sasa (age 38)
O:That's right. I took the idea from the old robot anime show Ideon. Sorry, I had so many characters to introduce. I started having too much fun with them. It was like a robot with extended shoulders like this on the right. It was the very first plastic model I got as a kid.
D: Hello, Mr. Oda! I noticed thatDressrosawas based on our home in Spain, so I decided to send you this letter as the speaker of our group. Why did you choose Spain? If you ever have reason to visit Spain, I hope you visit Barcelona'sSaló del Manga(a Catalan manga/anime convention). Nothing to be afraid of! Our women don't stab you!P.N. Voice of the Pirate King
O:This is a condensed version of a letter I received from Spain. The Japanese was strange in a few places, so I think that must have come from one of those auto-translation sites. Thanks for the letter. You're right about Dressrosa. It's based on Spain, and Ancient Greece for theColosseumparts.
When I took a close look atDoflamingoand tried to think of what country is suited him. I arrived at the conclusion of Spain. I've mentioned the lands of One Piece being inspired by real-life countries in the SBS before, but it's the first time I got feedback from the residents of the country. I can't be irresponsible in the way I draw, but if you do see anything that seems like a half-baked version of your culture or buildings, please forgive me. Remember, it's just a manga.
D: I've been wondering for ages—would you draw gender-swapped versions ofThe Worst Generationfor us? In face, please do!!!P.N. Momokichi
O:I got so many requests for this. I mean, I'll do it, but it's creepy, okay? Check it out on page 166. I haven't shown Blackbeard since the timeskip yet, so he's not included. That's all for the SBS. See you next volume!
Translated byVIZ Media.
Translations may have been modified since the original versions.
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 73.
I...I finally get to say it! Here goes...START THE SBS!!! (Takashi Takamatsu, Saitama)

O:Whaaaaat?! You can start the segment from up there?! Well... sure, I guess... Let's begin the SBS...
D: That's SBS-san to you.P.N. Kimurin
O:Whaaaaat?! I'm sorry! Start the...SBS-san.
Left: Dad; Bottom: Me
D: My dad can shoot "Shinokuni" from out of his butt. Does he have the powers ofGasu Gasu no Mi?P.N. Okku
O:Those are farts! FARTS! It's "Henokuni" (VIZ: "Land of the Farts").
D: I'm sure you must've gotten countless letters pointing out that you drew the "DEATH" tattoos onLaw's fingers wrong... In my opinion, whenever this happens, it's because Law is usingShambleson the parts above and below the knuckles to switch them around! Wow, thatOpe Ope no Micomes in real handy (if you know what I mean)!P.N. Kamiki
O:Uhmm... yeah. I got a lot of those letters. They all say I screwed up! (cries) That's what everyone says! But you know what, you're right on the money! That's right. If they're ever facing the wrong direction or missing entirely...it was all Shambles!

D:Chapter 711,Volume 71. The big panel. I see some candy falling out ofRobin's bag. Was she going to give that toChopper?P.N. Anmitsu Usagi
O:Yes! Robin loves Chopper, so she always keeps some of his favorite candy around to give to him at any time!
D: Hey, Odacchi! On page 109 of Volume 71, wasLuffygoing to callBellamy"Mallony"?! Was he thinking of the snack food company Malony? If Luffy's head is full of nothing but food, then I'm more likeSanji—my head is full of girls. What's inside your head, Odacchi?P.N. Shin
O:I don't think about girls the way you do. It's nothing but serious bustiness--ahem, business--in there. And you're right about Luffy's train of thought! I guess he only remembered the rhythm of the name.
D: Hello! (^ v ^) I have a question. You know there's a woman in both Chapter 707 and 708 who's covering her face to avoid seeing Bartolomeo's "thing". But...she's not covering her eyes! In fact she's peeking right through her fingers. Who is she? Tell me her name!P.N. Rhett Butler
O:Oh, you mean "Aremo Ganmi"? She's a well-known young damsel from the town ofPrimulain the western part ofDressrosa. She's very shy.

D: Are you and I the only ones hoping for a nip-slip fromRebecca? Are you and I the only ones who turn each page during theColosseumscenes thinking, "Come on! Come on!!"P.N. Mojaman (16)
O:I hear you! It sets my heart racing. You think, "When is your wardrobe malfunction?!" You might wonder why she'd wear such a skimpy outfit, but there's that pesky weight limit. I don't want to draw her that way, I swear. Come on! Come on!
D: I hear I look likeWapol.P.N. Kozuetty
O:It gets better.
D: Hey, Oda! In all of these fight scenes, why doesn't anybody go for the men's groins? Doesn't that seem like the quickest path to victory?P.N. Eldest of the Asada Siblings.
O:True, that is a vital area. Just imagine legends among men--Whitebeard, Shanks, Mihawk--staring each other down, bearing their weighty ideals...and trying to whack each other in the balls!IS THAT THE KIND OF MANGA YOU WANT TO READ?!
D: I was looking up trivia on theStraw Hats, and I found that although they've all been given a favorite food, I can't find anything about their least favorite. So what are each of the Straw Hats' least favorite foods?P.N. Ice Cream Nyangoro
O:Here you go. The reasons are inside the parentheses.

Ryokugyu (Imagined Drawing)
D: We've learned about two newMarineadmirals:FujitoraandRyokugyu. I wondered why you went with "Fuji" (for light purple or lilac) instead of "Murasaki" (regular purple)?P.N. Aye-Aye Planet
O: Good question. I've madered,blue,yellowand green, so it's natural to go with "purple" next. But when I started trying that into a Japanese name, I had "Murasakitora" and "Shitora"...
THEY DON'T ROLL OFF THE TONGUE. NOT CATCHY ENOUGH.
Well, how about "Fujitora"? Now that's cool! That's all there is to it. More importantly, what's wrong with your Ryokugyu?! As it happens, I've already designed his character, and he's super-duper cool! I can't wait to draw him.
D:ZoroandSanjiare always fighting! I was readingOne Pieceand thought it was odd that Zoro never seems to refer Sanji by his name, so I went back and checked!  I counted them up fromVolume 5to66! Here are the results, ranked by frequency!!!
In conclusion, Sanji does in fact refer to Zoro by name, but Zoro does not return the favor!P.N. Little Marron
O: ...Okay. Thank you very much, Little Marron! So you counted them all... This was very fun to read! Some of these terms made me wonder when they'd said these things. Indeed, I have trouble imagining Zoro calling him "Sanji" by name. Not once, eh? Wow. Well, they might not get along well, but they're both valuable, trustworthy men who have Luffy's back. So let's forgive them their squabbles (laughs).
(See editor's note below)
D: It's nice to make your acquaintance, Oda-sensei. First of all, "You're not a naughty, big person!" Secondly, those littleTontattasare so goddamn cute! I want to know as many names and positions as possible. Please tell me.
If you don't, I godda rip all yoh clothes!P.N. Beautiful Lady Swordsman Carrying Meat
O:Huh? But I'm already naked... Okay! Here you go! Some of them haven't really been drawn clearly yet, so they only get design sketches.

Top Row:Gancho(Tonta-Chief);Leo(Tonta-Troop Leader);BombaandRampo(Vice-Chiefs);KabuandBian(Aviation Squad).
Middle Row:Flapper;Bobomba(Bomba's younger brother);Maujii;Nubon;Pellini.
Bottom Row:Grabar(Leo's grandmother);Inhel,Cotton,Wicca,BaxconandDaikon(Reconnaissance Squad).
O:Not remembering their names won't affect your ability to understand the story. If I don't make a character's name clear enough through the story, it's not an important of a name to begin with. This answer ate a whole page though!
Well, it's time. That's another SBS in the can! See you next volume!
Translations may have been modified since the original versions.
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 74.
D: Alriiiiiight!! I'll start on my own free will in place of Odacchi~~.
Let's all stay in high spirits!! Now then!! ... Ready, set!!!
「SOS!!!」P.N. ClutsyGirlCandyApple
O:HELP-----!! SOMEBODY--!!ClutsyGirlCandyApple is drowning--!! SOS!! SOS~~!!
IT'S SBS Damnit!!!(shock)
D:Odacchi, I forgive you-resu.P.N. Cosettey
O: Oi oi!!(shock)You make it sound like I'm the one who messed up!!(frets)
D: Hello. I fell in love with Cavendish at first sight. So, Odacchi. I wanted to know his birthday right off the bat and I thought... Caven→Cabbage→Vegetable(Yasai)→August 31 (8Ya 3Sa 1I) might be a good idea? C'monnn, isn't it great?          P.N. White Toothed Prince
O: Hnnnnng~~... (pretends to care) hmm~~ (pretends to care) sure. (Doesn't give a damn)
D: In Chapter 731 during the scene where the objective of Operation SOP is being explained, Luffy, Zoro, Sanji, Chopper, Nami, Brook, (and Pandaman) are among the crowd of dwarves, aren't they! What could the meaning of this be! You aretheOda-sensei that I look up to after all, there must be somedeep reasonbehind this all! If you don't tell me, I'll...              P.N. Start The SBS!
O: It started just now!!? (shock) The SBS! Anyways... man, I'm amazed that you all find these miniscule details. Reason? Er, there is none? I just challenged my readers to see if they'd notice, yknow what I'm sayin.
..They noticed.
D:
Oda-kun! Yesterday, I wore underpants on my head with my little sister and played "the undepants man game". Would you like to try as well, Oda-kun? To play, all you have to do is wear the underpants on your head and say "I won't forgive you if you don't wear your underpants on your head!"! Give it a try, ok! It's really fun!
fromMaehara-san
O: Sounds like tons of fun~! Woohoo~!........
... Stopitttttttttt!!(shock)That's just sleazy!! Sleazy!!
D: Robin-san's hands areGORGEOUS, aren't they. Please let me rub against them.                     P.N. Yoshikage0130
O:WHAT A PERVERT!!!(shock)For real, give me a break! These days, the PTA are after me because of this segment. Please, let's not drop the class around here!
"Please...!!! Stop fighting!!!"
D: Oda-sensei, as you were drawing this series, which scene made you cry the most so far? Please tell us.             P.N. ca- 100
O: Woah. Splendid... This. These are the kinds of serious questions I look for.
Personally, there really are lots of scenes that made me tear up as I drew them. There are even times where the drawing becomes so tough for me from all the feelings, that I have to leave my desk for a breather. As for the scene that made me cry the most, or rather, the scene that was especially tough for me to draw, I do remember that the scene from the Alabasta arc where Vivi keeps screaming "Please...!!! Stop fighting!!!" (Volume 23) was so hard to draw that I had to put my pen down. Though there are countless instances like this the more I try to recall. I guess it would have to be this one---.
D: Question. If Marco's penis gets ripped off, will it regenerate?   P.N. Midorikishi
O: Yes. The penis will regenerate.HEY!!!(shock)
D: Can Fujitora's birthday be August 10? (8)Fuji (10)Tora P.N. torohitamanu
O: Hnnnnng~~... (pretends to care) hmm~~ (pretends to care) Zzz... (fell asleep) Hng!! (woke up) sure. (Doesn't give a damn)
D: Heyo Odacchi! Is Fujitora modeled after "Zatoichi" played by Shintaro Katsu-san? I don't know this guy but my Maman and Papan were saying that. P.N. Mitarashi Dango
O: Yes, that's right--. They're basically doppelgangers, so people from my era will probably realize that this guy is based off "KatsuShin" right away, but I suppose there's no way you boys would know~. There's actually loads of newer movies that use the same title "Zatoichi", but originally, this awesome actor, Shintaro Katsu, created the concept pulled from a different story's side character, and in total including all TV series and movies, this period drama has been remade over 100 times and is incredibly famous overall~. Yes. You're not interested, are you!? I know, I know! So anyways, this KatsuShin guy really hates scripts,andinfactduringtheTVseries
D: Sir Oda, please tell me when marine admiral "Momousagi" will finally make her appearance! The one that's rumored to make everyone explod-- I mean, charm people to death with her bombshell sexy dynamitz! I'm so eager for her appearance that I can't even sleep at night anymore.P.N. Sanji's younger brother Yonji2
"Usafufu Don't be such a stranger, boy"
O:HM?? Momousagi?......?
Er, right now the admirals consist of Kizaru... Fujitora... Ryokugyu...
Momousagi?(sweatdrop)Aah! That.
H...her, her,(frets)the vice-admiral, that's right! That person who was an admiral candidate, her, right?(frets)I'll just show her to you guys right now. This is Vice AdmiralMomousagi.→
They say her design may be based off the youthful Michiyo Kogure.

"From images 1~4 below, choose the Trebol who is wearing thecorrectoutfit."
D: We are a married couple that loves ONE PIECE from the bottom of our hearts. We made a "Trebol's face rubber stamp" and thought up this quiz together!P.N. Yamamoto Ryo & Kyoko
O: Yes. Thank you very much. What a close couple! Let's all try to find the correct answer!!
O: Now, have you gotten it all figured out~~? The answer will be noted in the following pa-LIKE HELL I'D NEED TO DO THAT!!!(shock)Damned couple! It's obvious!
...yes, I apologize for losing myself there. Well... content aside, the illustrations themselves were eerily humorous so I thought I'd just stick this in here. (Believe it or not, the answer is number 1)
＊By the way, in volume 72 I said that colosseums existed in "Ancient Greece", but that was a mistake. It's "Ancient Rome". My deepest apologies.

"Happiness Punch!! 100,000 per person ♡"
D: Luffy's Haoshoku Haki can take out 50,000 people, but how many people can Nami's Happiness Punch take out? P.N. Captain Nobuo
O: Oho--. I see. This is tough showdown, isn't it. Well let's see, if we were to talk about these two using their techniques with their own bodies alone, Nami's Happiness Punch would only work among "visible range", so it would probably not be able to compete against Luffy's haki. However, if we are allowed to take the usage of Visual Den Den Mushi into consideration, Luffy's Haki will not be able to convert into willpower-radio waves, but Nami will be able to attack various locations around the world at once, and thus victory would become Nami's. Nevertheless, it should be noted that the "Happiness Punch" also deals a great amount damage to one's wallet as it requires the payment of100,000 per person, and in this way, it can be confirmed that this attack is a great deal nastier than Haki in general.
D: I would like to know the Straw Hats' bed times and wake up times! Penname fujiyama
O: I see. A very interesting question indeed. These people don't really follow much of a schedule but. In general.
Sleep:When sleepyWake up:When he wakes up(Sleeps for around 5 hours)
Sleep:4:00 amWake up:7:00 am(+naps)
Sleep:11:00 pmWake up:7:00 am
Sleep:1:00 amWake up:8:00 am
Sleep:12:00 amWake up:5:00 am
Sleep:9:00 pmWake up:7:00 am(+naps)
Sleep:11:00 pmWake up:6:00 am
Sleep:1:00 amWake up:9:00 am
Sleep:12:00 amWake up:5:00 am
And thus, even during instances where they have to navigate through the seas during nighttime, there will always need to be at least two people awake at all times in order to keep an eye out in both the front and back directions of the ship, hence every member alternates every 2 hours to stay on the lookout. It isn't too uncommon that these people don't get sufficient sleep.
O: So I feel highly regretful about this, but it seems I have misplaced the postcard from one of my readers that made this request(sweats). Basically, it was a postcard asking for me to draw all the pirate flags from The Worst Generation team... but I lost it somewhere while I was drawing them. I'm so sorry.
Neeevertheless! I will fulfill this request! Thanks for the postcard!
I won't draw the ones that have already appeared.
O: Now it's about time I wrap things up.
SBS ending---------!! See you in the next volume!!
Translated byJapaneseOPfan.
Translations may have been modified since the original versions.
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 75.
D: Odacchi~~~~
I'll just start it right away~~~~ P・T・A!!P.N. OriOri
O:THE PARENT GUARDIANS!!!(SHOCK)(sweat)
The parent guardians have started...
"I'm gonna be!!! Pirate King!!!"
Left:Accidentally wearing back-to-frontCoat:Justice
Vice Admiral "Chaton" (Brown Pig)
Just what do you all want me to do!!  S・B・S!
That's what it actually is. That's right. We'll be starting now.
D: As the midterm season approaches, there's only one thing that I need to be doing right now, and that'sBECOMING PIRATE KING!!P.N. momotaRou
O:NO!!(SHOCK)Just, uh, NO?!
I think you've just made a grave mistake. In life.
D: Odacchi! Ello. So Marine Admiral Chaton, who asked outbombshell sexy dynamitz Momousagifrom the SBS on page 86 of Volume 74 100 times and got rejected 100 times looked something like this, right? (→) P.N. The Hide-yan with the red hair
O: Uhhh. So since he can't possibly be one of the admirals... Oh, it must be that dude, right?
The guy that, like Momousagi, was nominated to be an admiral; this (→) guy, Vice Admiral "Chaton", right?!
You're right, you're right, I found him in my sketchbook. There actually was a time at one point where I considered making the new admirals a "Pig" and "Kappa" to match the "Monkey" "Pig" and "Kappa" trio fromJourney to the West. However, in the end, I decided against it and we're here now with our newest additions, the "Tiger" and the "Bull". Thereisan actual reason for this, but I won't tell.
"I'll definitely tell my whole village!! That there are tons of good Fish-Men out there!!"
D: I saw cute Shirahoshi on the cover and started reading Volume 63 when I suddenly realized something.
That one ex-slave girl that Tiger took back to her village, her name... was Koala, wasn't it?? Wasn't it!!!!?
You're gonna have to be responsible about this! Oda-Sensei!!!
P.N. The Very Great Red Apple-chan
"When that runt grows up, she'll turn into a monster just like any other human."
O: You're absolutely right. People who didn't notice could've just treated her as a new character and carried on with their reading, but I'm really thankful to see that quite a lot of you actually noticed. I imagine that people in the "Revolutionary Army" all have some sort of strong feelings that go against the flow of the world, but as for the current "Fish-Man Karate assistant instructor", I just started thinking about the kinds of emotions that the human girl named Koala must have gone through in life after her previous appearance, and the things that came to mind just brought out all the feels inside of me.
To me, Koala is someone who leads a life that is polar opposite to that of Hody's, and I feel that, in general, she is a very special character.
D: Nice to meet you. I am a 24 year old lady who has an affection for sharks. Sharks are widely known for having 2 dicks, but does Hody also have 2 dicks? Also, how many dicks does Odacchi have? P.N. I want Shirahoshi to be my waifu
O:THEY HAVE 2 OF THEM!?(SHOCK)Sharks have 2 of them!? Wow, I had no idea. They're widely known for it!? I've drawn lots of sharks in my lifetime, but I had no idea. Thank you so much. If so, Hody has 2 of them as well.
He has 2 dicks, so he must be a double dick!
I guess personally, I only need one.
D: The tail-like thing that dwarves have on their bums, just what are they? Penname Maa-kun
O: Er, they're tails. They may look very soft and brushy at first glance, but they have extremely hard cores inside made of bones and muscle that assist with their extremely quick movements, and they also have the ability to apply a great amount of brute damage that comes in handy during battle.
D: Question. I used to think that my husband was a Beta Beta no Mi user.
This is because his face, neck, and armpits are always extremely sticky.
But then, it was revealed that Trebol is the current Beta Beta no Mi user...
So then just what is my husband's ability? P.N. Emukichi
O: It must be the abilty to excessively sweat.
D: This may be sudden, but please tell me, is the lighter that Sanji was using in "Z" (the movie) and the one he uses in the beginning of the anime opening "HANDS UP!" the same one? P.N. Loves ♡ the Cook way too much A.K
O: "HANDS UP!" seems to be the previous anime opening. I have no idea whether it was used there, but during the time around when "Film Z" was aired, I actually personally collaborated with a French company called "Dupont", and the lighter I designed made it's appearance in the movie. To tell you the truth, I also secretly slipped it into the main series in chapter 663 of Volume 67. Hm? Have I said this yet? Oh well. I think you'll be able to find the real thing on the internet if you search "Dupont Oda" online. Also, Sanji uses this lighter.
Left:Volume 71 Chapter 707 P133Right:Volume 74 Chapter 742 P208
D: Question. Oda-san. The two guys I have here who seem to be really fond of polka dots must be the same person. So this old guy had actually seen Ricky back when he was young after all, huh. P.N. Berg Taguchi
Top:Volume 74 Chapter 741 P202Bottom:Panel in question
O: Ok so. This must be the recent scene where this guy in the colosseum is talking about how he feels like he's seen the masked gladiator Ricky, a.k.a. King Riku, before in the past. He does, in fact, also make an appearance in the colosseum as "Ricky" during the flashback. So you may be wondering, "is the guy who was in the audience back then this person?", but so close!! Your intuition seems to be very sharp, but you can actually locate this man, who is a long time regular at the colosseum, on a different day. Don't you agree that the person from chapter 741 looks really, exactly like him? Now that we've got that down, take a look at the guy above the man in the panel you've pointed out to me. It's that dude!! (lol) Let me introduce him to you! Mr.Mukkashimi Tower, age 56. He loves watching gladiator fights- so much that his wife and child left him- but he's still doing great!
D: Good morning (currently 3 AM). So about volume 57, chapter 560! Right in the scene where Luffy hugs Hancock, I understood when the marines said it was a "Buchikamashi"[ぶち噛まし - a sumo move], but I've never heard of a move called "Sabaori"[鯖折り, written with the kanji Saba (Mackerel, which is written by combining the kanji for "fish [魚]" and "blue [青]") and the word Ori (折り, to bend or break)]before. What in the world kind of activity requires a move written as "Fish Blue Break"? P.N. "T.T"
O: Yes, Fish and Blue combined. A Sabaori[Mackerel Bend]also happens to be a sumo move. To use it, you must embrace your opponent and break his hip. Seeing how Hancock flopped onto the ground afterwards, the Marines must've thought that this was the move Luffy used on her.
D: I have just one thing to say to Odacchi as representative of all young maidens.
SENOR PINK SHOULD NOT HAVE BEEN A THING!
Just, NO!!That thing...
C...could you possibly be into that kind of thing, Odacchi-sensei...? P.N. Ladies' Representative Matsumokkuri
O:OH, HE'S A THING!!! HE'S TOTALLY A THING!!
Um, could you not take Senor so lightly? It says here that you're 17 years old, and yeah I get it, you youngin's tend to always judge a book by its cover, so just you wait, I'll show you soon.
The epitome of manliness, that is!
What it really means to be hard-boiled!!
Just you wait--!
D: Question. What would happen if you chow down on a bunch of tomatoes at the pool and wipe your mouth down with the bikini of some random cutie walking nearby?
...........That's gotta be it, right!? She'd fall head over heels for you, right!?
Alright,Let's Pool!! Wahoo--!!↓Odacchi... I got arrested........ Why??
P.N. I want to be Shimizu Chagero's disciple
O: Ouch... So someone actually went and did it...!! I understand, those feelings of longing and admiration to be like Senor.
So you're currently 13 years old. I would advise you to experience life for, say, around 30 more years, until you start reeking ofcoolness. I promise to develop Senor's character and good side to guide you in your journey!
Also, I wouldn't go in the direction of your pen name. Just don't end up on the wrong side!
"Ufufu. Yucky. Go die." (22 years old)
D: Odacchi, nice to meet you! So getting right to the point! What is Sugar's true age?!
It bothers me so much that Sugar was the only thing I could think of during exams! Even though I have to get into college...
Thanks to you, my scores were absolute crap♡ P.N. Gahara
O: So they were absolute crap. Well that's absolutely crappy (ba dum tss).
So, there's more background to this, but in a nutshell if you think about all the present facts that I have to take into consideration, she's actually not that much of an old hag after all.
At the moment, her outer appearance has stopped at the age of 10, but her true age is 22 years old. That would be 2 years younger than Baby 5. -----in fact, let me just reveal the entire family's ages right here.
With ages ranging from the 10s to the 70s, they're really just like a big, big family.
Alright, and that'll be my time. SBS ends here! However, at the end of the volume, there will be a notice about the first character popularity poll in 6 whole years!! The popularity poll that, so far, only Shonen Jump readers were given voting ballots to! We've decided that the Comics readers should also be allowed to participate, so if you're interested, make sure to read the end of this volume! Now then, see you in the next volume for more SBS!
Translated byJapaneseOPfan.
Translations may have been modified since the original versions.
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 76.
"For making you wait!! These 10 long years!!! MY HUMBLEST APOLOGIES!!!!"
"IS IT YOU, KYROS!!?"
D: For making you wait!! These 10 long years!!!
MY HUMBLEST APOLOGIES!!!
I WILL START THE SBS NOW!!!!
P.N. Spartacos
O:IS IT YOU, KYROS!!?(cries)
What's with this heart-wrenching style of starting this segment!
To think I'd get a postcard from Kyros...! Oh wait, it's Spartacos.
D: Odacchi, try drawing Godzilla.P.N. SnowSoul
O:Here, Godzilla.
Left: "Gorilla" Right:"Jab, Jab"
D: AboutVivi, I noticed that out of the countless characters that have appeared in the series so far, she seems to be the only character who is deemed to be a comrade without officially being in the crew, and if possible, I wanted to know if you could please tell us the specific number/specific color/animal resemblance/country/blood type/favorite food/least favorite food/etc., revealed for the rest of the Straw Hat Pirates so far, for her as well.P.N. Hoshino Shizuku
O:Gotcha. The fandom is strong with Vivi.
D: About Law, you know how, in his crew, there's "Penguin", "Bepo" and "Shachi"[Orca]? So, would that make Law a "Spotted Seal"? I mean, just look at his hat... Please tell me!!P.N. I am a Walrus
O:I see (haha). They're all part of the ice-cold sea series, aren't they. I can see what you mean, that hat is kind of like a seal. Well then, it's official. Incidentally, for Mr. Toshio Asakuma's ONE PIECE Animal Figurine Collection, they chose a snow leopard to represent Law. Again, an animal that prefers the cold.
D: Oda-sensei~~!! What happens if you try adding the cuteness factor to Franky?P.N. Fifty Storm Kyosuke
O:Here. I tried so hard, I really did, but in the end it just wasn't possible....
D: If the Straw Hats weren't pirates, what would their careers of choice end up being? Please tell us!! (Though I bet Sanji would still be a chef......)from H.momo Age 9
O:Ok. So about this, I actually ended up finding the answer on a postcard from another fan.
I found that the example professions listed to the side labeled "My Hobbies". that P.N. SukeKiyo-san included along with your exact same question were spot on, so here they are. I assume they really would turn out to be something like this.
Firefighter
Police Officer
Childcare Worker
Graphic Designer
Beauty Salon Worker
Elementary School Teacher
Cabin Attendant
Pilot
Detective
Top: Visual Den Den Mushi; Left: Proko; Right: Cameko
D: So Oda-sensei, I realize that your love for large breasts is an incurable disease that really can't be helped, but I've always waited long days and nights, anticipating, longing, for the moment you would introduce a "flat-chested character". And then... it finally actually happened!! Can you believe it?! That's right, the one and only with the absolutely stunning legs that we pride from our very own Doflamingo family- "Dellinger", aged 16! This, I believe, would be the very first "flat-chested female character" to have ever appeared in ONE PIECE...!P.N. I too, am a wife.
O:I'M SO SORRY! IT'S A DUDE!! (rofl)Man, it seems like this incident stirred up a whole lot of confusion in the fandom. In reality, he was found by the Family as an abandoned infant and was apparently cared for by Giolla, but I guess she ended up raising him to her tastes as a girl.
D: Oda-sensei!! Greetings! So in chapter 747, we can see that Koala goes "パシャ！"["Pasha!"- camera onomatopoeia; "snap!"]with a Den Den Mushi, but could that possibly be a variation of the Visual Den Den Mushi? Or does it have its own name, such as "Photographic Den Den Mushi", or something of the sort? Please tell us!!P.N. Samurai Ryota
O:Yes, that would be a Visual Den Den Mushi. So that would put this little guy in the same category as the ones that were stuck all around Impel Down. When it comes to "Visual Den Den Mushi", there's the "Cameko" type that acts as a camera, and then the "Proko" type that receives its signals and acts as a projector, and to put it bluntly, these two types are simply the adult and baby versions of each other. "Cameko"s also have the ability to store images and videos. As they grow into "Proko"s, they gain the ability to receive, project and broadcast these visuals as well.
D: Odacchi! Question!! You know how there aren't any females in the Whitebeard Pirates? It bothers me!P.N. Apple
O:Hrmmm. So back when they made their first appearance (volume 25), there were female nurses on board. These lovely ladies were actually the Whitebeard Pirates' official medical team. However, due to Whitebeard's own set of morals, he never allowed a woman on board his ship as "fighters". This is the reason why there wasn't a single woman in his crew when they arrived in the "Summit War Arc". He was prepared for "death" at this point. He had ripped off all of the medical tools that were helping him stablize his condition despite his illness, left the women of his medical team, who desperately tried to stop him, in a safe place while tearing up, and went back out into sea for battle with just his boys!! I ended up not drawing all of this, but that's basically all the drama that went down before Pops finally showed up in the house.
D: Oda sensei. I am currently faced with a big problem!!! My family just can't understand the difference between Zoro and Sanji!!!
So that even people like them can understand, I'd like to request you to draw some impactful illustrations differentiating the two in a way that they will never forget again.
O:
This is Zoro. This is Sanji. Zoro. Sanji. Zoro. Sanji. Zoro. Sanji. Zoro. Sanji. Zoro. Sanji.

D: If the members of the Shichibukai were genderswapped with the Horu Horu no Mi ability, what would happen?P.N. YMEK
O:You all really love this stuff, don't you. It's starting to get kinda weird, y'know??
Crocodile: "Kuhaha <3 I won't trust a single soul, but I totally believe in divination"
Moria: "Y'all better do your shit <3"
Hancock: "I'll be forgiven. That's right, 'cause I'm hot"
Teach: "Huh? Black beard? I don't grow one"
Doflamingo: "It begins... the cake buffet"
Jinbe: "I can't thank you en...ice body!!"
Mihawk: "You must surpass my beauty"
Kuma: "Hey heeeey, if you could go on vacay, where'd you wanna gooo?"
D: Hello, Odacchi! Going right to the point, about the person who appeared in chapter 341 of volume 36, you named him as "Mr. Happa", but in "BLUE DEEP", it says his name is "Yamao". It'd be great if I could get some clarification in that area!P.N. Bon Voyage
O:Yes. That would be Mr. Happa Yamao.
D: NAAA~~HAHHAHHAHHAHHA(hyper)Well hellooooo theeereeee~~! Tis~I,~U~~ME~~
To you all out there that look at nothing but Nami's breasts,psheeeewtake some of that orange juice spray!!
Recently, I've noticed that many mangakas are into the Twitter thing, but why don't you join them, Odacchi? When you're finished answering,psheeeewhere's some lovely orange juice spray to your open eyes!(P.N.UME)
O:Gah! It stings!! Stop it!! And it's fresh too!? .....mmkay yeah.
Twitter, I see. Is everyone really doing it? Well either way, I guess I still wouldn't be all that interested in doing it. In general, I don't think there is and will ever be an instance where I personally post or send things on the internet. I probably only ever do it with Shueisha or Toei Animation acting as a sort of mediator. Well actually, I just got a request to do this scribble segment thing on ONE PIECE.com. I guess I'll just kind of wing that.
D: In volume 13 chapter 116 pg 158, Dorry says that giants have a lifespan that is 3x that of a human lifespan. If so, what is the general life span of a dwarf? Seeing as Wicca is 27 despite her appearance, I feel like it might be pretty long.P.N. OP girl
O:Ah yes, so giants can typically live up to maybe 300 years or sometimes even more than that. On the other hand, we've got our youthful looking dwarves.. I wonder if it has to do with their proportions? But I heard that they live up to around 150 years. That'd be a bit more than a normal human-resu.
D: You know how there was a question in SBS Volume 75 about the admiral candidates?? Well I just figured out the reason behind your final choice of the "Ox" and the "Tiger" so here it is...
→
Hitsujisaru[未申 (坤) - literally "Sheep Monkey"]→ Momotaro
Ushitora[丑寅 (艮) - literally "Ox Tiger"]→ Kimon[鬼門 - literally "Demon Gate"]→Oni[鬼](Tiger loincloth, Ox horn)
And the "Oni" in this case would be representing the pirates.
Could the two new admirals "Ryokugyu" and "Fujitora" possibly have been created with the concept that, despite them being people of the Marines, deep down inside they are both Admirals who secretly harbor ill feelings towards the World Government (going against the WG → kind of like pirates?) as can be seen with Fujitora's wish to completely abolish the "Shichibukai" system set up by the World Government?P.N. Tosaka Kouhai
(Translator's Note: The epithets of the first three admirals [Kizaru- literally Yellow Monkey, Akainu- literally Red Dog, and Aokiji- Literally Blue Pheasant] come from the JapaneseLegend of Momotaro, where Momotaro befriends a Monkey, Dog, and Pheasant on his journey to defeat an evil Oni in a distant island. This tale is actually based off ofOnmyododerived from the more commonly knownFeng-Shui, a traditional Japanese esoteric cosmology, in which the Ox and the Tiger, aka Ushitora, are the two zodiacs positioned in the Northeastern direction of the Onmyodo diagram and considered to be evil or unlucky. In Momotaro, the Tiger and Ox are represented by the evil Oni.)
O:What? Me, becoming restless?(cold sweat)W-w-what are you talking about? Of course not.
Uhhh, well that was one heck of a complicated theory written on this piece of paper. If you want to, go ahead and try to process it. I haven't said a single thing about whether this theory is correct or incorrect, okay!(cold sweat)Just saying. I j-just happened to throw this postcard in, so that I could show my fans the kinds of questions I've been getting and s-stuff.
D: I know this is sudden, but how about we play a game ofshiritoriusing only Straw Hat member names (no family names)?? Ok, I will start...
"Zoro".Now then Odacchi, keep on doin' your thing!!from K Ayu age 16
O:Oh come on, it's Shiritori, right?! You have to keep going! Ok I'll go, I'm up next, aren't I?
Ready, set,"ROBIN!!!". OK, SBS ENDS HERE!!!
We'll announce the popularity poll results at the end of the volume!! Now that I think of it, we kind of forgot to do stuff like "you'll have a chance to win prizes if you vote~!" (I mean, it's been 6 years...), but a ridiculosuly amazing number of you still submitted your votes anyway, so thank you all so much!!
Make sure to look for your favorite character!
(Translator's Note: Oda had no choice but to lose because the only Straw Hat name that starts with the end of Zoro's name (Ro) is Robin, and her name ends with an "N".)
Translated byJapaneseOPfan.
Translations may have been modified since the original versions.
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 77.
D:I WILL START! THE SB...!!Nvm. P.N. Pisces Yoko, the pirate
O:You're just gonna stop there?!?!?!(shock)
...Right. Well I'll be starting it nevertheless.
Guys guys, hear me out for a bit!! Take a look →
This is a work of art that was submitted and featured as part of the Usopp Gallery Pirates segment in volume 23. ---and then, there's this super popular series that's currently being published in the Shonen Jump magazines called "My Hero Academia". Take a look at the authors.
←→THEY'RE THE SAME!!!
This is volume 23 we're talking about, so I guess that makes it around 10 years ago? The same person who, as a boy, submitted this postcard, is now a widely recognized and extremely successful professional mangaka himself!! Not only that, but his work actually ended up being serialized in the Shonen Jump magazine right alongside "ONE PIECE" itself!! This news gives me ecstatic joy. You see, a bit back at the Jump new years event, he himself actually came forward and told me about this. You should've told me earlier, I would've totally rooted for you!!
With that being said, please go and check out Kohei Horikoshi-sensei's series "My Hero Academia"!!
D: Oda sensei, is it because you ate the Ero Ero no Mi that you enhance the size of Nami and Robin's boobies in your drawings? Please enhance the size of my mom and my sister's boobies too. Also, please enhance the size of my p*nis. P.N. Idle Idle no Mi user (age 8)
O: Yeah. In fact, I do remember about this one time that I ate a really gross-tasting fruit for dessert and... ever since then, I became like this and...
What do you mean I became like this!!(shock)Such rudeness!!
I hope for the various belongings of your family to grow larger than the body.
D: Odacchi, hello!! So about the conversation that Kanjuro and Kinemon are having in (volume 76) chapter 754, page 2!!
That dialogue comes straight from aRakugoperformance, doesn't it!
The "Summer Doctor" one!! Odacchi, do you really like Rakugo??
Tell me who you like best from "Hanashika"!!
Personally,Nidaime Shijaku Katsurais my fave!! P.N. Fukutaro age 16
O: You're right. That particular scene was a scene that I wanted for Rakugo fans to have a chuckle at. "Chisha" (萵苣) would be the old word for lettuce. In Rakugo, there is a particular phrase that goes "the summer doctor always makes my stomach hurt", and that line was supposed to be a pun on this phrase. There is also a Rakugo story known as "Escape Sparrow", which is about how a sparrow that someone withinsanely good drawing skillsdrew sprung out of the paper and came to life.
There are lots of Hanashika people that I like. After all, I've loved them all ever since I was in elementary school! Let's see, so there's Hanashika Kosanji, Gontaro and Kyotaro, Tatekawa Danshi and Shinosuke, Kinba Sanyute and Katsura Bunchin and Jakusaburo, Shincho Kokontei and Shinchou and...THIS WILL NEVER END!!!
Rakugo is super fun! I bet none of you even care (cries).
D: Could the large scar on Sabo's face possibly come from the time...
That he fought with me...!?
O: No.
D: Question. On Law-san's coat, there is a logo that reads "corazan". Is this talking about the Cora-san that Law loves? Is Law's coat specially custom made?                                               P.N. himeji
O: Yes. So, to be specific, the coat reads "Corazon (corazón)" rather than "Cora-san". In Spanish, this word means "heart". While this is in fact straight up Cora-san's code name, it can be said that there isn't really a problem with the captain of the "Heart Pirates" wearing this coat either. Even speaking ability-wise, Law is a "death surgeon" known with his unique skill of cutting peoples' "hearts" out. While to society, it may seem like a symbol of fear and power, I'm quite positive that Law himself had "Cora-san" in mind. It's definitely custom made.
D: Hello, Oda-sensei. About Rosinante's name...
Is it derived from the full-length novel written by Cervantes? Since the main character, Don Quixote, rode around on a horse named Rosinante, it intrigued me enough that I decided to submit a postcard. Please give us a detailed explanation! P.N. 0196
O: "Don Quixote", I see. In a nutshell, it's a satirical story about a slightly insane knight.
Let me explain myself in detail!!
I named him on a whim.
D: Does Gladius's penis blow up? P.N. Muranko
O: It does.That's terrifying!!!(shock)
D: How old is Corazon? Why is it that Sugar isn't present in the Dofla-family flashback scenes? P.N. Roronoa Romugen
O: Corazon is 2 years younger than Doflamingo. He died at the age of 26. So Sugar and Monet would end up joining after this incident. These two were rescued from an extremely misfortunate environment by Doflamingo himself, and as sisters aged 9 and 17, they resolved to throw their lives away if it were for the sake of the Family. They were provided with Devil Fruits after joining. You see, Doflamingo is very observant of the "environments" that people grow up in.
D: Odacchi, hello! I totally just decided to randomly read Luffy's palms without permission or being asked to!
And so guess what I found out!!
Turns out he hasTHE CONQUERER'S PALM, aka the "MASUKAKE LINE"!!!
Everything I looked up about his palm lines are literally straight up Luffy's personality! Now his Haoshoku Haki makes sense too! That's our Odacchi!!
To think that you even went as far as taking his palm lines into account when developing him as a character... absolutely incredible!!! P.N. tauteniKimi
O: ...... ...... w...WELL OBVIOUSLY?(sweats profusely)
That's right, I always take care to take even a character's p... p... palm lines into account when I design them. You see, I thought this just had to be the line that best suited Luffy! mosu... Masukake Line!? You're absolutely correct, I'm amazed you even noticed!
D: A question for Ei-chan. If you take a single bite out of a Devil Fruit, and then someone else eats the rest of it, will they still be able to gain the ability? Take it away, Ei-chan. P.N. ☆Monkey-chan☆
O: Ehh,They will not.Once someone takes a single bite out of the fruit, the ability becomes solely theirs in that moment, and from then on, the fruit simply becomes a insanely gross-tasting fruit. Still, everyone takes care to eat the whole thing without knowing this.
D: Please reveal the age and height of revolutionaries Sabo, Koala, and Hack as well as what species of fish-man Hack is! Also, can Hack's birthday be 8(Ha)/9(KKu)? P.N. Katana★Romantic
O: Yes. And that's gotta be his birthday, for sure.
187 cmage 22
160 cmage 23
280 cmage 38 (Brocade PerchFish-Man)

D:*Celebrate*Congratulations on their marriage!! That is, Baby 5 and Sai!! By the way, what kind of woman is this "Uholisia" that was mentioned as Sai's ex-fiance? I imagine a rather gorrilla-esque... strong, independant woman... P.N. Heidi's senpai
"Sai <3"
O: I heard that she is a woman with gorgeous hair and a cool look to her eyes →
D: Oda-san, hello~. About Bartolomeo, he said something about how his barriers have a limit or whatever, so how many Bari-Bari's worth is its maximum capacity? P.N. Hoichael Jackson
O: Great question. There is in fact a limit to the space his barriers can cover, as well as how many barriers he can put up at a time. He can only hold up one barrier at a time, and they say that this one barrier can cover up to 50 thousand Bari-Bari's!! Amazing! 1 Bari-Bari equates to roughly 100x that of 1 Bori-Bari-Bari, so in other words, his barrier capacity is just about 500 Pickle-Pori-Pori-Bari-Bari's.
(Translator's Note: Bari, Bori, and Pori are all Japanese sound effects that roughly translate to 'crunching'.)
D: In chapter 765, from looking at what we see of the castle, the island that Corazon and Law were on was the same island as Noland's homeland, "Lvneel Kingdom"!! I wonder if Corazon was thinking, "maybe if we go to the island that was able to cure Tree Fever, which also caused people's skin color to change...!!" and took Law there. Just my wild imagination itself is starting to make me tear up. Please pass the kleenex. P.N. Sacred Tree-kun
O: Correct. They are, in fact, the same place.
The scenerey really hasn't changed at all from the past there.
You were imagining a scenario like that?!
Now you're making me tear up too.
Corazon is such a good guy~ (cries).
D: To tell you the truth, about Cora-san's birthday...
0 7 1 5 [No Sound Corazon]that's right...it turns out to be 7/15...!!P.N. Yabu Smith
(Translator's Note: With a stretch, the numbers 0715 can be related to the Japanese pronunciation of "No Sound Corazon" [Oto Nai Corazon] with the 0 representing to the "O" in "Oto", the 7 and 1 combined to create the word "Nai", and the 5 standing in for the "Co" in "Corazon").
O: Mmkay. What he said. Right then, SBS ends here.
The Tokyo One Piece Tower just recently opened! Go there! Okay then, see you in the next volume!!
Translated byJapaneseOPfan.
Translations may have been modified since the original versions.
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 78.
D: Odacchi... Today, when I was cleaning my room, I found a note that Cora-san left behind...
When I saw it, I suddenly remembered about Cora-san and...
*sniffle*...(tears). I wanted Odacchi to see it too, so I've sent it over. P.N. Mirucle
"gonna go start the SBS"
O: Uwoooooon (cries). Cora-saaan...!! The sbs~~..
JUST STARTED!!(shock)
D: Whenever I chug a carbonated drink, I get an upset stomach.
What should I do? P.N. Dog Lover
O: I think it'd be fine if you didn't chug.
Left: The momCaption: Wooden swordRight: The dad
D: I want Pandaman to have parents
--and so I've made them!
Please check it out!! P.N. Kanahasa--
O: It really bothers me that the mom's body is clearly male.
Thanks for the post card (^ ^)
Concept rejected.
D: I know this is sudden, but I have a question for Odacchi.
Why is it that there is an abnormally extensive number of characters in One Piece who have unknown or already deceased mothers? P.N. Navy Blue
O: I see. Well. The answer is simple.
That's because"Mother"is the antonym for"Adventure".
*Please don't write that on a test
D: Question, so "Gimlet", who appears in chapter 775 is based off of "Gimlet" the cocktail, right!? Oda-sensei, could it be that you're also aRaymond Chandlerfan?
Or maybe you just really like alcohol (haha). P.N. Law's Second Assistant
O: Yes. That is where "Gimlet" came from. How to go about this, it'd be way too complicated if I tried to explain it all. Basically, it was just a play on words for my amusement using this proverb, and I'm sure people who understand what I'm talking about will get this, but there's this famous line from the novelThe Long Goodbyethat goes "I suppose it's a bit too early for a Gimlet". Uhh, in other words, I gave him that name because I felt like I couldn't not reference the word when it came to drawing about hardboiledness. If it interests you, please go look it up.Russianis also the name of an alcoholic drink. Additionally, though I'm a Kyushu lad who draws pirates for a living and loves the concept of hardboiledness, I'm still no good at handling drinks.
D: We realized that Robin has huge breasts.
We checked from the side, and Nami also has huge breasts.
Why do they both have such huge breasts?
And could it be Oda-san's preference?
That was a question from us two 10-year-olds. P.N. Sakucchan & Yuzu-chan
O: I keep saying this, but I'm just bringing the young boys' dreams to life! All of humanity on earth! I command your breasts to grow~!
D: Greetings, how do you do? I'm doing great.
I have a question regarding one pieces, which I love very much.
I am wondering whether I should go for floral or solid.
I like floral print, but it's like, solid print also seems more mature and lady-like.
Which do you think is better, Oda-san? P.N. The Unrivaled Conquerer, HaruHaru-sama
O: Let's see. As for me, I usually go out wearing a frilly, floral print one piece. Then I always realize that I've somehow ended up in a police station, and the policeman is always asking me all kinds of these strange questions, but nevertheless- I'm still doing great! Gotta love one pieces!
(Translator's Note: They are referring to one piece dresses. In Japanese, since there is no difference in singular vs plural nouns and there are no capital or lower case letters, "one pieces" and "One Piece" look and sound identical.)
D: I have a question for Odacchi. In "The White City", chapter 762 of volume 76, during the scene where Law stabs Cora-san, I found Crocodile printed on the paper Cora-san was reading.
So what was that article about? P.N. Yamamoto・Sugiyama・Hori
O: Yes. I'm quite impressed you found this one~. As you've pointed out, if you look really closely, you can find Crocodile there.
This was from the time when Law was 10 and Doflamingo was 25; 16 years ago from now. Crocodile was 30 at the time.
Similar to Luffy, back when he was young, Crocodile's name spread across the seas with incredible momentum, but soon after he was admitted into the Seven Warlords of the sea in his early 20s, he tried to fight Whitebeard and was completely and utterly crushed by him.
Though he seemingly calmed down at this point, his eyes became set on the kingdom of Arabasta, and it happened to be precisely during this time period that he was being featured in the papers as a hero who hunted down pirates. In other words, that was an article reporting the acts of heroism by Crocodile at the time!
D: What are the thorn-like things on Pica's shoulders? P.N. No. 73
O: If you put a growing watermelon into a square container, you will eventually get a square watermelon. In Pica's case, he constantly wore a shoulder guard shaped like that during puberty, so his shoulders just grew that way!!
D: Oda-sensei--!! Buggy would be able to get past the "Bird Cage", wouldn't he!!! P.N. Mr. DoMyChores
O: You're right, he would--.
Even if you put him in the bird cage with his crewmates, he'd still escape by himself!
This is a nice picture (→)badly hand-drawn illustration of buggy split in half by reader provided
D:
When Luffy and Doflamingo get into a fight I want Luffy to win.
from Iwate Prefecture, Taichi-kun
(Translator's Note: Written in extremely bad child's handwriting, accompanied by a distorted illustration of Luffy [by a child])
O: I'm with you!! Please cheer for him with me!
D: Please teach us an easy way to draw Zoro! P.N. Kanahasa--
O:
Zoro: Who're you calling a lost child
D: Does Buffalo style his unique hairdo on his own everyday? P.N. No. 73
O: They're actually cowlicks.
D: The one who was with Barrels, the pirate called "Dorry", was X Drake, captain of the Drake pirates, right?! It struck me when I saw the name "Diez", found the scar on his chin, and discovered that he comes from the sea of the North.
So does that mean that Barrels is Drake-san's father? from Kobe Prefecture, Kazuki-kun
O: Yes, that's correct!! Well done with your findings.
X Drake, along with Luffy and the others, is a member of the youthful "Worst Generation" of pirates that stirred up a great deal of commotion around the world. His father, Barrels, used to be a Marine Officer and Drake admired this, dreaming of becoming a great Marine just like him one day. However; who knows what happened, but his father suddenly turned into a pirate and became a terrible man who would physically abuse even his own son. Drake, who still believed in his past father and followed him around was aged 19 at this time (13 and a half years ago). Though that's a bit too old to be calling him a boy, he probably seemed to look a lot younger while he was weakened with the fear of his father. Later, he fatefully crossed paths with Law, and the Marines soon took custody of him, leading Drake to become a Marine. The thing is, as if resigning himself to fate, after Drake made his way all the way up to becoming a Rear Admiral in the Marines, he ended up leaving the navy and becoming a pirate himself!!
Just what happened? What's he thinking? Hey, you!! ---come onnnnnn.
I'm interested in seeing the future of Drake, who has also made an appearance in a cover series!!
O: Alright, everyone. So in the previous volume, I introduced Horikoshi-kun, the author of "My Hero Academia" whose work was published in one of the Usopp Gallery Pirates. This time, I'm proud to announce that I've gotten a notice that P.N. Nozomu Mori who was awarded Grand Prize inVolume 74has debuted with a one-shot! Though it wasn't published by companies like Shueisha or Jump, I heard that this person debuted under the penname "Keita Himuro" in a magazine called "Monthly Afternoon" this year! Congratulations! I'd love to see this person get one of his works serialized and for him to make a name for himself in the great sea that is the Manga World! You've got this!! (^ ^)
By the way, one of his works is featured yet again in the UG Pirates segment of this volume.
D: Hello to you!! Recently, I found out from watching a television show that real marines eatcurryevery single Friday while on duty to keep track of the days of the week.
Do the Marines from One Piece eat curry too?
If so, does the curry that Rika makes taste super sweet? P.N. Kagamin
O: You're talking about "Marine Curry". It's a well known story, but ONE PIECE Marines do just the same.
From what I hear, the marines keep a balanced nutrition in mind and have delicious seafood curry once a week.
At the branch where Rika is stationed, I hear that "Rika's sweet mild curry" is extremely popular.
Well then, SBS will be ending here! See you in the next volume~~!!
Translated byJapaneseOPfan.
Translations may have been modified since the original versions.
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 79.
D: Oi... Odacchi...!! *hack*... this.. has nothing to do with you but.... *gasp*...!! Just now, over in that ally to your right.... I came across... a weakened old hag.... who was in need of help, y'know!? ----*fwoosh* (sound of Odacchi dashing away!)
----alrighty!!!\(^o^)/ --it's been my long awaited dream to say this:
I WILL START THE SBS ★
Hooray---!!! I said it!  by Ayataro
O: ------...? Weird... I don't see no old hag in need of he...
HUH?! THE SBS ALREADY STARTED!! (SHOCK)
Hell, I've been tricked!! But I'm glad!!
So the weak old hag, in desperate need of help... doesn't exist after all...!
D: About the "Nico" in "Nico Robin", could it possibly be that it's a reference to the NICe O's (so, breasts) she has?   by Hiromu(*It's a pun with the japanese ' 'niko' ', which means two.)
O: No.
D: Nice to meet you. This is sudden, but... please teach us a tip or two on how to draw that hawt hourglass body all ONE PIECE female characters seem to have! Make sure you don't forget to include their airbags ♡
P.N. If there's no bread, let them eat roses~
O: Yes. Hello. It's drawing time at the SBS segment. I would suggest that you think of a woman's proportions as "three circles, one X". Now if you'll excuse me, I'll be leaving.
(I only draw this kind of body, so I get a lot of complaint postcards from my female audience. Let's all stay strong and keep on living life.)
D: On page 39 of volume 74, there's this scene where Doflamingo's underlings suddenly shut up and silently stand together in the elevator. When I was a child, I learned that we're supposed to be quiet when we're riding in an elevator, but could it be that these men were also taught this way?     by Hiromu
O: Hmmm. I see, being quiet. God knows what actually created that hilariously awkward moment. If someone had farted in that scene, that would have become a golden moment, wouldn't it.
D: In the Straw Hat Crew, Sanji is obviously the one who is the best at cooking, but who else is good at cooking? What is everyone's speciality dish?
P.N. I created the praying mantis rooster.
O: Well then, I'll be presenting to you what each member is best at making.
(Luffy: Raw Meat on a Plate, Zoro: Sashimi, Nami: Roasted Duck with Orange Sauce, Usopp: Fish & Chips, Chopper: Mixed Juice, Robin: Paella, Franky: Barbecue, Brook: Churrasco)
Sanji is the best at cooking seafood, but he is overall good at making just about anything. Also, this has to do with how these characters grew up, but generally the ones other than Sanji who can actually do some decent cooking would be narrowed down to pretty much Nami, Usopp, and Robin.
Other members can pretty much just kind of slice, roast, and mix ingredients.
Oh, also, Nami's cooking requires a premium fee even among crew members.
O: It's time for a game!! Many thanks to P.N. Yuri-Chan's Daddy, who sent us aSpot the Differencepuzzle for everyone to try out! There are 7 differences total. The answers are below, but make sure to hide them when you're playing. Now let's get hunting!
D: Odacchi!! I know this is sudden, but I kinda wanna try turning the Donquixote top executives (Trebol, Diamante, Pica) into hotties using Sanji's"Parage Shot"!!    P.N. Soft Idiot
O: Here.
D: About the powers from the Dressrosa Arc that Doflamingo's officers have... are they pretty much just improved versions of the abilities that the Baroque Works members had (so like Ton Ton → Kiro Kiro, Beta Beta → Doru Doru, Buki Buki → Supa Supa, and Pamu Pamu → Bomu Bomu)?     from TaokaS43
O: It's true that "superior" devil fruit abilities are a thing, but as of now, it's pretty much just these four pairs.
(Ton Ton > Kiro Kiro, Hie Hie > Yuki Yuki, Magu Magu > Mera Mera, Buki Buki > Supa Supa)
Though there are other fruit pairs out there that might make you wonderdon't they pretty much do the same thing?, these abilities tend to be headed in different directions in terms of how they actually work or what they can do. Also, a superior ability does not necessarily equate to the character's strength. No ability alone guarantees victory in combat.
D: Odacchi!! Hello (lol). Since Dr. Hiriluk is a doctor(医者 - ishya), how about taking 1(i)and then combining it with the sum of 4(sh)and 8(ya)to make his birthday January 12?  P.N. HaPHaruka
O: Hiriluk, after all this time?! Come on now, you know that we can't just decide on important things like this on a whim...
BUT I'M TOTALLY DOWN!!(big thumbs up)
Yes, it's been decided.
Now then, I would like everybody's attention for a moment!(Sa Kokode Chotto Minasan Kitekudasai!)
SKCMK Time!!
So about birthdays, you know how everyone is just kind of randomly making them up as we go? I mean it's fine, since I don't really give a damn about them anyways (yikes, I said it).
The thing is though, I recently had one of my staff members look up all of the character birth dates we've decided on throughout the years. The results? ABirthday Calendar, which I've included in the back of this volume. Please check it out. (Page 190)
Alright! Crap, I never realized there were so many overlapping birthdays!!(shock)I've even received several letters in the past mentioning things like "None of the characters have my birthday". I see.
..So, what I'm trying to say is...LET'S FILL THIS CALENDAR IN!!
Why don't we make it possible for all One Piece readers around the world to be able to say that they share a birthday with so and so character?
And by the way, here's a disclaimer:
I WON'T CHECK A SINGLE ONE OF THESE BIRTHDAYS!!Please just come up with plausible explanations on your own as for why a certain character should have that certain birthday, even if it's a stretch. It's likely they'll easily be affirmed without any trouble, as usual-
Since I really don't give a damn about this stuff!!
This calendar is the latest version as of October 2015, but I'm sure the blanks will start to fill out soon enough as the volumes keep getting released. You can always write these new birthdays in on your own, or go to ONE PIECE.com to check out the birthday calendar that we'll make sure to keep updated. For anyone who would like the decide on a character's birthday, I'd love it if you went on our website and sent us your suggestions by checking the blank boxes on this online birthday calendar. We'll be waiting!!
D: Greetings, Mr. Oda. Just recently, I found out that you're supposed to give your dad sunflowers on Father's Day to show your love and respect. I really had no idea. About that one scene where Kyros fights Diamante in front of Rebecca... that was in a field of sunflowers, wasn't it. Now I get why they couldn't have been fighting in a field of cosmoses or tulips. Ja feel? Ja feel? Ja feel?? P.N. The three chestnuts
O: Huh. I had no idea either (haha). It's carnations for Mother's Day, but I guess dads are supposed to get...sunflowers!!Not sure if it's just me, but aren't sunflowers a bit... large? Hahaha. I've heard that you're supposed to give other kinds of flowers on Father's Day as well, so I assume there must be various opinions on the matter out there. Nevertheless, I'm glad to find that there's an actual connection between "sunflowers" and "fathers"!
D: Mr. Odaaaa! I've discovered a rather mischievous doing of yours!! It's on page 18 of chapter 743. In the scene where Sabo destroys the colosseum ring and people are freaking out... there's this sfx written in that goes "GOGOGO" to convey the loud rumbling sound the crushed ring was making, and if I'm not insane, I'm pretty sure there's a gorilla sitting nearby that sfx that has the letters "rilla" written on his hand. GoGoGorilla...! How sneaky of you! P.N. Sacred Tree kun
O: Damn, I'm impressed you managed to actually find that. Even I had forgotten all about it XD
D:(in a child's handwriting)I am glad Kyros beat Diamante.
(Next to drawing in child's handwriting: "Bastard")
O: I KNOW, RIGHT!! It felt so good to see that bastard finally get what he deserved! In fact, he's an idiot that deserves to trip, fall, and hit his head on Scarlet's grave, like, 10 times at least! Mr. Taichi Nakajima, thank you so much for your postcard!!!
D: Greetings, Sir Oda! So, I've been having this gut feeling that Luffy's pose when he's in Gear 4 kind of resembles a Japanese Nio statue. Do you have any deep reasoning as to why he does such a cool stance? When I get into a fight with my spouse sometime in the future, I am planning to use this pose as a method of intimidation. P.N. Sanadacchi
O: I see this is a postcard from someone who is married. Not sure about using the "Gear 4 stance" during a couple's quarrel though. Don't you think you'd be less likely to jeopardize your life in the next fight if you used "Fujitora's kneel of apology" instead? (laughs) Anyways, yes, you are correct about the Japanese Nio statue! I know that there are all kinds of things that symbolize power around the world, but I decided to stick to my homeland for this one and pick up some inspiration from an age-old representation of Japanese strength. Can't wait to see Gear 4 come out in figurines and the anime!
D: Oda-sensei, I've discovered them...! In chapter 785, I found people wearing clothes with things like "RIKUOUSAMADA" (IT'SKINGRIKU), "JANAINO?!" (IT'S NOT?!), "RYOUKAI!" (ROGER!) and "IKINOBIRU!!" (IWILLSURVIVE!!). Could it be that Doflamingo has been orderingthatpopular line of clothing from Fish-Man Island? P.N. A Swordsman Willing To Sacrifice
O: I suppose I've been found out. It's those "explanation of the situation t-shirts", back at it again. Looks like the brand fresh out of Fish-Man Island called "JKS" has found its way into Dressrosa as well. I'm pretty sure there's a bunch more, so please have some fun looking for them! My recommendation would be the "ATAMANOTOGATTAKO" (THEKIDWITHTHEPOINTYHEAD) series.
D: Mr. Oda, greeti-...ugh.. gah!!! *falls over* ...Well.. to tell you the truth... I've recently contracted this deadly disease known as the "Cora-san I friggin' LOVE YOU disease". Ahem. Yes. And so with that being said, please tell us Cora-san's height, favorite food, and least favorite food. P.N. A young maiden in love
O: How terrible. Here, I will give you a prescription for that. Please take the following medicines: "Height 293cm", "Favorite Food Lettuce Cabbage and Dried Plum", and "Least Favorite Food Bread and Pizza". Take care.
D: Hi Odacchi!! In chapter 785 of volume 78 when the lady is screaming for her child wearing a shirt with a bear, SHE MEANTTHATBEAR?! P.N. Bartholomew Kuma age 12
O: Ooookay. How about I explain? (haha) In chapter 785 of the previous volume, there is a mother amongst the crowd of chaos desperately searching for her child. She yells out, describing her child as one who is wearing a "shirt with a bear (Kuma)". Later on, due to Fujitora's heroic deeds, she was finally able to find her child as shown in a single panel, and if you look closely at the child's shirt, this is what you see:
(Not kuma [Bear], but Kuma [Bear])
(Bottom right: same thing tho)
...sooo... yes. Now that that's cleared up, everybody please stand up and help me end this SBS with a grand "straight-man phrase" directed at this particular parent-child duo. Three, two, one aaand
YOU MEANTTHATKUMA?!(SHOCK)
Thank you very much, and see you in the next SBS! Please check out the back of this volume for some new information on the upcoming movie~!
Translated byJapaneseOPfan.
Translations may have been modified since the original versions.
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 80.
And the man I mentioned earlier...
D: Oddachi, Hello. I'll ask you directly. In one ofBrannew's lines from Chapter 700 inVolume 70, he's speaking of a "Questionable man", but who could this man be? Is it someone who already appeared? P.N. A Person Who Wants Odacchi To Say,I'LL START SBS
O: Hey, I'm happy about this pen name. What was it again?Me? So I'll let the SBS star..........!!AH!! IT'S ALREADY VOCALISED............!!!..... Yes, it has started. It's about the "Shichibukai", right. They appear in this Volume (80). Please check it out inChapter 802"Zou" and shriek out. Also please wait for his next appearance.
D: What is the meaning behind the word <SOL> on the hat of the one'legged soldier? P.N. Takaaki T
O:It's the<SOL>inSOLDIER.
D: Oddachi, can you turn intoHentai Kamen? P.N. Takaaki T
O:Yes.
D: The <G> inNagi Nagi no Mi!!! What is the meaning behind 'Nagi Nagi'? P.N. Takaaki T
O:The state of a silent sea caused by the absence of wind is called<Nagi>(Calm). The name ofCora-san's ability originates from it.
D: Oda-Sensei, After I started watching One Piece, I thought of it all the time, but why isSanjiaddressingNamiwith "San"andRobinwith"Chan"? Yet it is Robin who's the elder!! Is there any deep meaning behind it!? P.N. Miracle♪
O:Well I actually didn't think anything of it. Before there was a staff member in our workplace who asked us something interesting. The wish to treat a woman older than you as if she was younger, and a woman younger than you as if she was more of an adult....Is Sanji acquainted with this feeling? I replied,"Oh, of course. That is right."
D: I report!! I'm the person called "Yaypott Papy" whose name was printed in theUsopp Gallery Pirates' Section inVolume 19. Thanks to you it's a manga to learn from, and generally speaking, I managed to make my debut as a mangaka. P.N.Takuma Takahashi
O:Oh. Seems you came back. Since I've been doing this for 18 years now, I'm also glad to see my readers grow up! This means that the first book of"The Mystery of the Dinosaur (Kyouryuu No Fushigi)"was published. Those of you who want to know about dinosaurs, absolutely!! Please choose the book of your friend.
D: Oddachi, I'll give you a pornographic book, so please answer my question. Sanji won't allow anyone to waste food, but what will he do if a woman does so? P.N. Smoker's Cigar
O:I think he would grab the plate and eat it up. Now please give me the pornographic book.
D: When Robin-chan sprouts flowers, blossoms scatter around her. What kind of flower blossoms are those? P.N. One Piece Mania
O:You spotted something interesting. Those blossoms that dance fluffily in the air, present the glory of Robin's techniques. They are called"Fuwa* Flowers". This is waft fluffily. Please give me the pornographic book.
D: Oda-sensei, Hello. I just have something I'd like to ask you. On the cover ofChapter 518, you can see the home ofCP9. This looks very similar to the East Tower on the Jiang Xin Yu* in my home town, "Wenzhou", in China. So did you draw inspiration from it? I have to ask this. P.N. shrimp friend HAOWII
O:Oh, it's that tower without a doubt. It's the training ground of the CP9, and I thought, for me, who grew up in a generation of Kung Fu movies, a Chinese oriented setting would be fine. I assume that's why I chose it. I intended to take my cue from far away landscapes, but I am glad to know people live there who read One Piece. Thank you for the letter.

D: WhenKoalafell around Robin's neck, I came to like her \(^ ͜  ^)/. So exactly under what circumstances did Koala,Hack, andSabomeet? P.N. One Piece Mania
O:Hm, many people want to know about the life of these three. Once I start to tell you there'll be no end.
Firstly, there is Sabo who was rescued by Dragon when he was around 10 years old. He then meets the Revolutionary Army and learns about things happening in the world, and their (Revolutionary Army) thoughts on it. Finally, he sympathizes with them.
That's when he meets Hack who, as a master in Fish-Man Karate, teaches martial arts to children without prospects that are raised by the army. However, Sabo carries no memories. But he isn't a boy anymore on a level such of someone who can still be taught something. Taken under Dragon's wing he shows great skills and grows rapidly.
That's when Sabo is 13 years old. A 14 year old girl called Koala is brought along by Hack and joins the Revolutionary Army. (Skipping some details) She takes Fish-Man Karate lessons under Hack and even becomes Master Assistant. The obliging Hack and Koala are, together with Sabo, increasingly assigned to missions as a team due to their good affinity.
Yes, the order of their encounter has this kind of vibe. The story is broached in the anime, but I think there is not enough room to tell everything. Please figure it yourself.
D: So in chapter 794, there's this flashback scene whereLuffyis bawling and saying " UGHWEABIADITAAAAA!!! IDOHYUDARAGOFAIOROAAAABATAGUUUAAOAAAAGHHH", but what in the world is he actually saying? Here's my take on the quote. "Ugh, where have you been idiot!!! I... don't you agree Odacchi friggin' loves boobs way too much wahhhh". Am I right? P.N. Shuntam from Kumamoto
O:Bzzzt. Wrooong. The amount of wrong in that second part seriously knows no bounds. Here is the actual correct answer. "Ugh, where have you been all this time!!! I thought you had died long ago for crying out loud, but thank goodness. By the way, Odacchi seriously likes big boobs way too muchwahhhhh".
D: Mr. Oda, heso!! If you look closely, you can see that the sky island known as "Ballon Terminal, the ruined city" has a crapload of balloons stuck to the bottom... but could it be that this sky island is kept in the air with balloons?! P.N. Sacred Tree kun
O:You have a very keen eye (^_^). That is precisely correct! These are balloons that float in the air with a strong will to fly known as "helium". I'm sure you've seen a few kids here and there who accidentally let go of a balloon they were holding onto and start bawling their eyes out in despair. Well have you ever wondered where those balloons end up? That's right! They all reach this balloon terminal station, also known as "Ballon Terminal". At some point, civilization came to be and thrive on this island... and even after it fell to ruins, the island continues to float on.
D: I have a question, why are the nobles of theGoa Kingdom(other than Sabo) andCelestial Dragonspeople (other than Dofy and his family) ugly? Is it because you have a dirty mind. Since it's about Oda-sensei, I'm sure there must be a deep reason for that, Oda-sensei. Please tell me about him. I can't finish my pseudonym summer vacation homework (crying)
O:No, Mukatsu-kun, these guys!! I don't know what's so great about it. Those guys who don't seem to have even a shred of kindness, I'll make them look weird!!!...... First time! 
Excuse me. I'm distraught.
D: After the battle with Diamante, it was strange thatRebecca's cloak, which was supposed to be protected by Robin, was torn, but when I looked closely, I used the cloak to give first aid toKyros' wounds. It seems that there is If so, isn't it erotic? actually P.N. Pekoe
O:Amazing imagination and observation! That's right. Kyros' hands and feet are covered with Rebecca's cloak. Actually, at first, he was using more of Rebecca's cape, but if he broke the cape too much, Rebecca would feel very erotic!! safe!! Rebecca must have a cloak!!
D Hello, Oda-sensei. If you read from left to right, the letters on the frontispiece ofchapter 766and the background menu will be "(omitted)". In addition, (omitted), (omitted),...... (all omitted!!). When there was this cover art in Shonen Jump, it was the final chapter of "Naruto". Was this manga special for Oda-sensei? P.N. Gokira
O:Yes. Em. This is so. But it's a so-called "hidden message", so it's not like you're revealing the truth yourself, so the answer was written, but I omitted it. I've received a lot of letters from comic-only readers asking, "What is this?".
I think everyone knows the ninja manga called "Naruto", but the final installment of the 15-year long serialization, this is the cover of his One Piece in that issue of → "Shonen Jump" has some hidden messages. People tend to think that "Naruto" and "One Piece" are in a hostile relationship, but in reality, the author Kishimoto-san and I have been good friends for a long time (laughs). I was grateful just to be able to survive with him during the jumps where the works changed so much. It's great that we're the same age. Currently, Kishimoto-san seems to be having a lot of fun, getting out of the hell of a weekly serialization, leisurely playing, and doing a little bit of work (^^)
D: I have a request for you Oddachi. Please draw theDonquixote Family's members in their childhood age!! P.N. The Invincible Gomu Gomu
O:Yes, it's fine. But i won't draw those characters who already appeared in their childhood age.
(From left to right, top to bottom. Row One:Trebol,Diamante,Pica. Row Two:Monet,Lao G,Gladius. Row Three:Machvise,Giolla,Senor Pink.)
Well then, that's it for SBS! See you in next volume~!!
Translated by Oro Jackson Forum user Micchan.
Translations may have been modified since the original versions.
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 81.

D: Heyz!! Odazz!! You're saying nothing but indecent things in your SBS, so even if it's all of a sudden, we students frankly start it!!SBS START!!Odacchi! Odacchi! We want to seeZoro's Baldness. Please do it!! P.N. A Zoro loving child, Misaki (15 years old)
O:
What's that all of a sudden!! It's on, so I start with a Solo Bows which doesn't make sense!


D: Please Odacchi!What is the thing attached toShirahoshi's head? P.N. Witch child Takkun
O:It's Taiyaki.

D: Please draw a 'kind'LuffyhowFujitoraimagines him!! P.N. Peko
O:Sure.



D: What is the name of the gorilla bySengoku's side? Is it aUhho-kun? Would Uhho-kun be fine? Also, does Uhho-kun like marine okaki? P.N. Hijiki
O:...Well...it's theMarinesokaki loving... Uhho-kun....
D: Hello. I don't understand the world map of the One Piece world well. "New World" orEast/West/South/North BlueorRed Line, I don't know where each of them is located. Every globe-like tool is fine, so explain it comprehensibly. Please keep doing your best. P.N. Caterpillar
O:This...!! Freshness--!! Alright. It's easy to understand. I'm sorry. This has been an ungracious manga it seems. I illustrated the "One Piece World" for all new readers. There are 2 pages at the end of the volume. Please try and skim through them!!
D: Hello Oda-san. This time, there are some characters whose names I'd like to know. First, the 'Doctor' who said "Somebody, we need help here!". Next, The Granny saying "Leave me behind and save yourself!" and finally, her granddaughter. Please tell me their names. That's all. P.N. 'Person'
O:Let's introduce them.
DoctorTegata Ringana(Hobby: Guitar)
Dress grannyShin Detamaruka(Former dancer)
GranddaughterShin Jaiya(Wants to be a dancer)
D: I understand most of them, but who has written the autographs involume 80, page 115 on the left side? -P.N. Please tell me who wrote them
O:Those are of course, the five autographs given toBartolomeo.
(From left to right, top to bottom. Row One: Luffy, Zoro,Usopp(To Bartolomeo, silhouette of his profile・Usopp). Row Two:Franky(to brothers star mark FRANKY),Robin(Nico Robin, chicken picture).)
D: Odacchi-sensei, hello. I was thinking about birthdays for those saying "There is no character I share my birthday with."
So what do you think? P.N. Masao, Whose Birthday is on December 14th (Please think of a character!!)
O:It's fine. You aimed at some missing spot there! Still there is no character with your birthday. (Laughs) I like it, they are all good.
D:Kuina's birthday is September 17th if you look at it as follows: ku (9) / i (1) / na (7). Right...? That's how it is, right? hm? That's how it is, right—right—right—right—right—right? (Trebol style) P.N. God, Punya, Lighting

D: Odacchi! Hello!! I'm writing aboutPenguinandShachi's birthdays of theHeart Pirates.
I thought of filling in the blanks in my birthday calendar! P.N. Sami
D: Oda-sense-i!!Ky(9)roswho has some live together withRebeccais having a doubly peaceful (22) life now, so September 22nd. Please acknowledge my effort (Laughs). P.N. Chibimaru
O:Yes thanks, though it is also a bit far fetched (laughs). As for filling the calendar, I concluded everything is fine!! Whatever you do, it's a win for you!!
D: Oda-sensei!! Hello! In volume 80chapter 800you can find that "3Tamaria" and "2Tamaria" is also written on the flag of theYonta Maria Grand Fleet. Does it display ranks? It is true that Columbus was sailing on the "3Tamaria", right? Furthermore, is the picture of the egg based on the egg of Columbus? P.N. Samurai Ryouta
O:You have good eyes. That's correct, and you understood the egg mark very well (Laughs). That's how it is.
There are three types inOrlumbus' Yonta Maria Fleet. From front to back, there are 50 "Nita Maria" ships, the slightly bigger "Santa Maria" ships with 5 in number, and finally the largest, 1 "Yonta Maria" ship.
On top of that, there are 1 big "Happosai" and 7 ironclads called "Ipposai" inSai'sHappo Navy.
Cavendish's "Sleeping White Horse of the Forest".
Hajrudin's viking shipNaglfar.
Bartolomeo'sthat.
IdeoandLeodon't have ships at the moment, Ideo was going back home with Orlumbus' help. This, of course, isn't something you have to remember.
D: Please tell me the favorite and most hated foods of all therookiesfrom 2 years ago, with the exception of Luffy and Zoro. Is there a food thatBonneyactually dislikes? P.N. Ane-oto
O:I'm going with ① for loved food and ② for hated food.
① Cabbage rolls② Curry udon
①Spaghetti aglio, olio e peperoncino② Curry udon
① Tom Yam soup② Mayonnaise
① Adzuki beans and pork② Vegetables
① Fortune cookies② Meat
① Rice with chicken② Eggs
① Onigiri and grilled fish② Bread and Umeboshi
① Meatballs and tomatoes② Tomato juice
① Pizza Margherita② Carrot
D: I'd like to become such an excellent mangaka like Odacchi. That's where my question comes from. What do I need to draw a manga? Also, please tell me how to draw. I beg you x2. P.N. Iku
O:Wait a minute, "Excellent"? Please say it again, I want to record it. Well, I receive this request quite a lot of times. I don't have much space to explain it here in the SBS corner, but there is a book called "Jump-ryu!" which was published as of late. I may appear or not appear in the book inclusive DVD which records manga works of Jump's authors. To be honest, it was published by a former supervisor of One Piece, "Habuyan", and if it wasn't at the request of that person whose debt I'm in, I originally wouldn't have accepted (Laughs). It contains lots of rare drafts and ideas, on top of that line-up of authors who even I would like to see. So if you're interested, please take a look at it. And to P.N Iku-kun, I'm sorry if it's a little bit expensive.
D: Odacchi, nice to meet you!! I'm asking about Mr."MasterNekomamushi" who appears inchapter 806, is this originally a song by Chou-san,Brook's voice actor?
I'm a big big big fan of Chou-san, so this is something I have on my mind and I can't sleep even if it's past 10 in the night!! Thank you in advance for this matter with Chou-san, too!! P.N. Poo-chanchan
O:Yes. Both Nekomamushi's guise and Brook singing the song are compiled in this comic. Everyone, please search by all means for the video [ネコマムシの旦那に会いに行こう]（1番＆３番　演奏付き）["Let's go meet Master Nekomamushi" (Please search for her (with 1st & 3rd performances)).] on YouTube. Brook's voice actor, Chou-san, is singing this piece of music! Chou-san's wife, Chouko-san, has written the lyrics and melody. By the way, my interest in the song was caught from the start and many years ago did I tell Chou-san. I asked him "Can I have Brook sing this?". With the willing consent of the couple "Master Nekomamushi" was born, although the atmosphere is a little different due to the story. It will be fun to see Brook sing this piece of music in the anime (Laughs).
D: Oda-sensei, hello. I have counted. Who among theStraw Hat Pirateshas become strident the most frequently? I found as follows.
For comparision:
I researched for approximately one month and a half. (Volume 1-80). P.N. Oda-sensei likes big breasts
O:Do you have nothing to do!!! I do!! Yes, that's one time for me... No seriously, thank you for counting. This is interesting, Zoro is at it a lot.
D: Oda-sensei, I have a request. Please draw the face ofBarto Club'sGambia's "Grandma at Home"!! She surely has a pleasant face. P.N. Aminchi
O:
Yes, the grandma. To be honest, she isn't related by blood to anyone of the Barto Club. The Barto Club has come to be a large gang, but they originally were a group of rascals who grew up as a childhood friends in rural areas, and increased in size later on. Among them, the elite that loves the Straw Hat Pirates so much leave home and go to sea is made up of the current members. Also she is the grandma from the small-time candy store that was visited a lot by Bartolomeo and the others since they were rascals. She still is supportive of all of them. Ever since then, she helps or doesn't help out with an abundance of useful hints and infomation throughout the adventures of her boys on the sea. (Most of the time she doesn't help)
D: Hello. Maybe it's all of a sudden, but when the Marine (->) was looking for bullets and gunpowder... was he, by any chance, also looking for his own "Balls"? Did he find them in the end? P.N. Keyakibucho
O:CALM DOWN. THEY WERE BOTH OF THEM.Okay, that's it for SBS! See you in next volume!! Movie information and "One Piece's world explanation" are at the end of the book. Look.
Translated by Oro Jackson Forum user Micchan.
Translations may have been modified since the original versions.
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 82.

O:Hello, all. I suppose it's about time to start the SBS...
D: Aha! That face... you must be Eiichiro Oda. I've heard that lately, people have been forcefully taking over the beginnings of your precious little segments called the "SBS". I take it that this is the reason why you've arrived so early at the SBS auditorium this morning. BUT ALAS!!! You've failed to succeed in your mission once more, as I have been waiting at this exact spot for 3 whole days before this moment... all in order to fulfill my own desire. Well then, since the time has finally come, I'm proud to announce ..."THAT I WILL NOW BEGIN THE SBS!!!"P.N. Komashu
(Image text: *sneer* You're 100 years too early!!)
O:GAHHHHH!!!So it seems I've come along... 100 years too early!!
D: The other day, when I glared at my 3 year old brother, he started to cry. Do you think this might be a sign that I haveConquerer's Haki? P.N. Kaoruko.U
O:Please be nicer to your poor brother.
D:Oda-sensei, please save me.Akainuis standing right behind me. What do I do?from T. Junpei
O:Calm down. I'm going to teach you a move that will allow you to escape this threat. First, turn your mouth into a "3" and stare into the direction of your upper left. Then, begin to whistle. This move will likely allow you to escape most enemies, ghosts, evil spirits and the like.
D: Oda-sensei! I know this is quite sudden, but please reveal the hobbies of the members of "The Worst Generation"! P.N. K.S.9
O:
Yeah, something like that.
D: The "Grand Ship Collection" simply calls it "Law's Submarine", but does his submarine really have no other fancy name like theThousand Sunny? P.N. Looking for a full-time job at the Heart Pirates' crew
O:Ah, I didn't even know that they had such merchandise! His submarine is called "Polar Tang". Haha, I suppose it's my fault for not introducing the names of boats and ships every time.
D: (In child's handwriting) I think gorillas taste good. I like Lassen. P.N. Taro Sasaki
O:Thanks for the postcard.
D: Oda-sensei! I had an epiphany!! Could it be that the melody MasterNekomamushiwas singing as he bathed was from "Fate" by Beethoven? Meow meow meow meoooooooow. Meow meow meow meoooooooooow ♪ P.N. Ryouta the Samurai
O:Woah. Now that you mention it.. his lyrics do fit perfectly! To think that Beethoven's "Fate" had such lyrics! Everyone, please try out these new lyrics in your next music class.
D: I feel like One Piece has tons of characters that are old dudes, but is that just because it can't be helped due to the nature of its story? Or is it because you have the "I'll die if I don't draw old dudes" disease? P.N. Uhocilia
O:I love me some old dudes! I feel like age adds a new sense of depth to characters, both male and female. One Piece has tons of really interesting old people! But in the real world, age tends bring people down to a weaker state... and I've always disliked how there are some young people out there who just can't have a little respect for these aged individuals because of this. So with One Piece, I've brought to life one of my countless fantasies: which is for there to be super cool old people who've maintained their strength throughout the years.One day, you also will grow old. It'd be great if all of you could remain just as strong as the One Piece oldies are!
D: Mr. Oda, since you're the creator of One Piece, have you ever worn a one piece dress yourself? Also, please tell me how oldSilvers Rayleighis. P.N. Jabras Rayleigh
O:Of course I always wear a one piece whenever I'm working. Rayleigh is 78. As a sort of a bonus,Rogeris 77,Garp78,Sengoku79, andTsuru76.
[T/N: He probably meant Roger would currently be 77 if he were still alive.]
Above: PeronaBottom: Former Warlord Gecko Moria
D: Oda-sensei, I have a question for you. Currently, my sister and I are fighting over whatPerona's age is. Please end our fight for once and for all. Please also reveal Perona's height as a bonus. Please. Grade 6 age 12. P.N. Cherry Pop
O:Perona is currently 25. Her height is 160 cm. Back when she fought Luffy and the crew, she was 23. She lovesMorialike a parent, since he found her when she was still a child and raised her ever since. She strongly believes that he is still alive, even after his disappearance at the Summit War.
D:WHICH IS STRONGER... THE KING PUNCH OR THEHAPPINESS PUNCH?P.N. Captain Nobuo
O:The Happiness Punch even managed to take outCobra, King of Alabasta, so perhapsElizabellowouldn't stand a chance either.
D: Oda-sensei, the other day, this rather flamboyant guy came knocking at our door, calling himself a "Missionary from the (something) Club". He was pretty suspect so I immediately contacted the police and had him leave, but now that I think of it... could that have been Mr.Gambia? If that was the case, I can't help but feel a little sorry for what I did. P.N. Chimney until you enter the house
O:Whew, that was a real close one, mate! Gambia from theBarto Clubis a missionary of "Luffy-senpaism". If you had let him stay, he would've had you listen to him for hours talking about how miraculous Luffy and his pirate crew are.
D: Hello, Oda-sensei! Recently, all theStraw Hatsgot new photos for their wanted posters... and I'm super stoked about it!!! By the way... how and where wasNami's new photo taken?? So sexy... hahaha. P.N. Yutiko really likes Nami-san's voice.
O:The fact that her pose is model-esque hasn't changed since the last poster, but here's pretty much what happened.
Photographer:I'm a photographer from so-and-so magazine! (Lies) Wow, you're gorgeous!! Could you possibly strike a pose for us to use on the cover of one of our magazines?
Nami:Oh, fine... if you insist. Make sure I look cute <3"
"Click!"
O:Something like that.
D: I'm incredibly hyped over everything about New World Nami. As the creator, do you feel uncomfortable knowing that I'm thoroughly enjoying all the Nami merchandise that's being produced and plan on continuing to do so in the future? Should I tone it down a bit? Penname B.S.L
O:I feel like Nami's popularity has been skyrocketing these days. Could it be because she makes more appearances now? Anyways, I suppose you're feeling a bit guilty because you're looking at my characters with lecherous eyes XD. This is just my personal opinion regarding all of the characters I've ever created... but in all honestly, it doesn't really bother me. One of my own great teachers told me once: everything within "the world of manga" is pretty much just merchandise. Nobody within that world is real, and it wouldn't be very professional of a creator to get offended over whatever a customer decides to do with the goods he has bought. I feel just about the same way. You're free to your own interpretations, fantasies, and any other methods of enjoyment. It makes me happy just knowing that you even care to follow along with my series at all.
D: Is Nami named after her extraordinary (nami nami naranu) rack? by Hiromu
O:Don't you usually name kids as soon as they're born?!(shock)
D: Greetings, Oda-sensei. even thoughDoflamingois already a big boy, I still want to know: what are his favorite and least favorite foods? His favorite food is apples? And least favorite is peppers? P.N. Donuts
O:Hmm... Donuts, could it be that your favorite food is apples and your least favorite food is peppers? Doflamingo's favorite food would be lobster. In addition, he despises barbecues. I know, even though they're so fun! Word has it that he associates them with some sort of traumatic memory.
D: I found a mink dude that was wearing a t-shirt with the face of the reindeer thatChopperhas a crush on, printed on it. I guess that makes the two of them rivals. P.N. Takataka
(Image Text: Volume 81 chapter 807)
O:It's true. I'm impressed you managed to find that! You see how that shirt has "Milky" printed below her face? That's right; she'sMilky, beloved idol of the Guardians! Since female reindeers are the only ones amongst all female deer-like animals that grow horns, you're also correct about her being a reindeer mink. Chopper will probably never find anyone like her. Will he ever try to approach her? Only time will tell.
D: Odacchi, I have a query for you. Just why didSabogrow out his hair? Please select one of the following answers.
(Personally, it would satisfy me most if 3 ended up being the answer.) P.N. Sweat Ninja
O:The answer is 5. To hide the large scar on his face. If you look at him really carefully from the front, his hair is parted ever so slightly to the left (his right), and he has a little more hair covering the right (his left) side of his face. I suppose you could say that he isn't quite fond of that particular scar.
D: How's 11/22 (I I NIyan NIyan- good kitty cat) for Master Nekomamushi's birthday? P.N. I do love cats after all.
O:Whaaaaaaat?! Sure.
D: This one is for P.N. Masao, Who's Birthday is on December 14 fromvolume 81!! I've racked my brains in order to make your wish come true!! How isPicafor your birthday buddy, with the number pun behind his birthday being "He can freely manipulate rock" (Jiyuni (12) ishi (14) o ayatsureru)?! Odacchi, what do you think?! P.N. Piteler
O:So kind! (Haha) Masao, the guy who just wanted to have a birthday buddy within the One Piece world... good for you, man! Make sure your voice is extra squeaky from now and on!
D: Oda-sensei, heso!! As I was browsing through the list of birthdays, I realized that nobody from Alabasta other thanVivihad official birthdays yet, so I did my best to come up with some! How is:
"kobura koku'ou" = 213;(13) is king and bu is (2)
"karu--" = 118;( -- becomes u (08)) and ka is (11)
"hayabusa = 823(Japanese for Falcon);both ha and ya are (8),bu is (2) and sa is (3)
"Jakkaru" = 426 (Japanese for Jackal);ji/shi is (4), ka is (2) and ru is (6)
"ko--za" = 526;ko/go is (5) and za is (26)
"igaramu" = 126;i is (1), ga is (2) and mu is (6)
...? P.N. Hii (20 years old)
O:Whaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaat?!!(shock)Sure.
[T/N: It's hard to explain, but basically, all these birthdays are based off "number puns"- something that's rather common in Japan. These "number puns", known as "goro awase" (ゴロ合わせ), use the various methods of counting that exist within the Japanese language to turn normal terms into numbers. For example, above, the word for "freely" (Jiyuni 自由に) sounds like the word for "twelve" (jyuni 十二), hence "freely" can be written as "12". Nevertheless, some of these are definitely a stretch.]
D: Oda-sensei, please draw theStraw Hat Grand Fleetcaptains' appearances from when they were children! I beg of you! P.N. Thank You Pirates
O:Here you go.
(From left to right, top to bottom. Row One:Bartolomeo,Leo, andHajrudin. Row Two:OrlumbusandIdeo. Row Three:Sai,Cavendish, andFarul.)
O:Well then, let's wrap up the SBS for this volume! Check out and enjoy the back of the volume for some information on the upcoming movie and some UGP art. Now then, see you in the next volume!!
Translated byJapaneseOPfan.
Translations may have been modified since the original versions.
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 83.

O:(Up arrow) EEEEH!? EEEH... EEEH... SBS STARTED.
D: Oda-sensei, hello. It's about the introduction of the 20 crew members of the "Heart Pirates" who got a raw deal in chapter 815!! I thought there are only men in the crew, but there are women too? Right?? I'm surprised.P.N. Shirokuro Panda
O:EEEEH!! That's quite a surprise! Everyone says, why do you want to know!! ... Well. Before, I drew the members who disagreed with forming an alliance with theStraw Hat Pirates. I will reintroduce the three members who were left out due to lack of space.
T/L notes:
← This scene. Maybe they weren't convinced about the alliance yet.
D: Oda-sensei, no matter how often you say he's Whitebeard's son. Weevil just isn't!! He just doesn't resemble Whitebeard in the slightest! P.N. Whitebeard's Big Fan
O:Hey, Just as expected. Someone who doesn't believe that he's the biological son of Whitebeard and has become one of the Shichibukai. Your opinion has met my expectations. FUFUFUFUFUFUFUFUFU... UFUFUFUFUFUFUFUFUFU.
D: In chapter 792, a neighboring country called "Apple Nine" as featured. Could the name of this country, by any chance, derive from ringoku (ringo (apple) - ku (nine)) Apple Nine?P.N. Haru
O:FUFUFUFUFUFU..GEHOFUFUFUFU.
T/L note: ringoku = neighboring country
D: Oda-sensei, how do people of the Longleg tribe ride bicycles? Please explain in detail.P.N. K.Jun-kun
O:Well you see, they would struggle to ride on a normal bicycle, so they have their own bicycle shops in the country where Longleg tribe members come from. There, they make bicycles specifically altered for people with long legs, so they have no problem riding bicycles. Thanks for your concern though!
D: The mink tribe uses words like yugara, or agara, or yutia, right? It seems they are used when addressing somebody, but is there any idea behind it? Please tell me. On this occasion, please "Garuchuu" me. (Laughs)P.N. Jinbei's Disciple Mag
O:Garuchuu. Yes. I think this might be confusing at first, but it's simple.
That's basically it. Additionally, plural forms would be "yugara-ra" and so on. Please read it spontaneously. It's a miracle how a species, living in an isolated country, can communicate with words like this.
D: Odacchi!! In the sbs from volume 82 you told us how to escape from Akainu, bears, ghosts and the like. But when I try to do this before my angered mother I'm just beaten up... Is my mother stronger than Akainu?P.N. Star Fairy
O:You better watch out! you're being too brash! A mother is the strongest living being in the world, even stronger than Kaido!! Don't you dare do it again! But, you know, your mother loves you more than anyone else.
D: I love the Dressrosa arc and have read it many times... but there is one thing I don't really understand. So I sent this question to the current sbs and you. "Why did Viola and Doflamingo call each other "Doffy", "Violet" in chapter 788 "How I fight"?" What were both of them thinking of at that time back then?P.N. Fuki
O:Hm, she was dashing against the enemy. There is a deep secret setting I can't tell you about though. I informed the supervisor about it, but since it is a pretty adult part of the story it remains hidden in the shonen manga which One Piece is. To all adults, please try to imagine yourselves. Dressrosa is truly a passionate country!!
D: Hello Odacchi! Hercales-n always uses "n" at the end of words. Could his actual name, in truth, not be heracles at all?P.N Uchi-san
O:Well... in regard to this, it could be an eternal mystery-n.
D: Odacchi, here's a question! What is with Zou's legs? Are the inhabitants of Long Ring Long Land, surprisingly, Long Legs?!?!P.N. Shoko-tan
O:Yes, you focused on something interesting. Indeed, if you think of the form of a normal elephant, you think something like "sea? But it's too deep [for elephants to stand in the water]!". The truth is, the scientific name of this elephant is "Naitamie Norida Elephant" which possesses oversized legs with multiple joints. Maybe I will include this in the main story someday, but that's basically it.
T/L note: Backwards for dari no e mitai na = It looks like Dalí's picture
D: Am I the only one thinking that the technique called "Sheep's Horn" from chapter 795 looks like poop? It weights heavily on my mind, I even can't grab tapioca with my chopsticks.P.N. Friends seem to be able to drink black coffee
T/L note: A type of starch extracted from cassava root which is also used for tapioca pearls in bubble tea
O:To me it looks like poop as well.
D: Hi Oda-sensei. Did you know that the best high quality coffee in the world is made from the excrements of elephants? When it comes to an elephant of 1000 years, I think some good dung should come out. So absolutely, please brew coffee!P.N. Sanadacchi
O:I'm hearing about that for the first time!! I searched, it's true!! I theoretically understand, still, I will contain myself after all!! And that's that.
D: Oda-san. Heso!! When talking Skypiea skills, pumpkins are one of them and the guy who told them about a plant called this pumpkin is a botanist named Noland, is not it? When I saw Dressrosa, they were everywhere! Could Noland also teach how to plant pumpkins on the Tontatta tribe when they meet?P.N. Kamiki-kun
O:Yes. It is true. Perfect. Pumpkin is very nutritious. And it seems that wherever Noland goes it is rooted there. Maybe he is a man who loves nature.
D: There's something I want to ask about Vito's "Monster Gun" from the Fire Tank Pirates. He has a very big hand. Although, the clothes that he uses appear normal size. So how did he put his hand in there?P.N. Stark Yang
O:LIKE THIS!!
D: Odacchi!! You said in Volume 79 "It's all empty as you please". So I tried my best and thought. Vi (Bi> B> 13), O (O> 0), Ra (LA) // 130> 1/30!! That's the blank part!! I'm a genius!! (laugh) So. Please!!P.N.Natsumikan * @ Vivi
O:Eeeeeeh! OK.
D: Oda-sensei. Hello! I'll fill in the blanks on the birthday calendar.
By the way. How old is Sai? How much time separates him from his partner? Referring to... I'll... envy them.P.N.Uholishia
O:Eeeeeh!? Not what ~ Sai's age is..No. I'll show you everything that receives a bottle of sake.
Young Sai. Does he look so old to you?
D: Odacchi~~! What happens if I pull a woman's underwear likeSmoker~? (FromSBS Volume 67) If I do not intend to try, I will not know! OK. Come on! To Eiichiro Oda-sama! I was arrested. Why?P.N. Shimizu Chamoro
O:Yes. Our SBS ends here! See you again~~!!
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 84.
D: One day, I heard a voice. "Give me the order!!" It was the voice of Zunesha. So I asked, "What order?" And Zunesha said, "Order me...to start the SBS!!!" So...start the SBS!!! P.N. Middle-Aged Man Who Wants to Eat the Clear-Clear Fruit
O: Aaaah!! It's Zunesha!! Zunesha is starting the SBS!! Run away!! Aaah...eeek...
D: When I try to pet my cat during the dry season, I get a little electric prickle. Could my cat be a mink? P.N. Year of the China Rabbit Y
O: That is absolutely a mink. Watch out—it might be waiting for the dawn of the world, or hiding a ninja.
D: I want to be Momonosuke!! P.N. Captain Nobuo
O: I understand. Let me be clear: "On the inside, every man was once Momonosuke." And your heart will be Momonosuke for eternity!! I'm not there yet, but I hope to be Momonosuke when I am an old geezer!!
D: Does Hancock's cooking taste good? P.N. Eryngii
O: It used to be bad, but she's gotten much better at cooking meat over the last two years. It looks good, but only Luffy's eaten it, so who really knows.
D: In what order did Bepo, Penguin and Shachi join the Heart Pirates? P.N. Amefurashi
O: It's a long answer, but so many people asked that I decided to run through it here. You've read the backstory of Law in volumes 76 and 77. After the incident 13 years ago, Law wandered into the next town over onSwallow Island, crying his eyes out.
D: I was born on June 13th, but I don't share a birthday with any character. I was trying to think of one so I didn't feel so lonely, and then I realized that 6 can stand for "Mugiwara" and 13 can be read as "Ichimi"! So how about if June 13th is "Straw Hat Crew Day"?! It's a party!!! P.N. cherry
O: What?! If you think you can get away with that...you're right! I also got some suggestions for the Donquixote Family members from Andy and Mary's Lamb...but I won't just take them without a fight! Here are the birthdays and the phrases the numbers stand for in Japanese...
D: Is this all right?
D: What do you think?
O: Hey, you!! I'm sorry to say that I've taken a hard look at these, and...they pass!!
D: Hello, Oda-sensei. Please tell me the ages of Buggy, Kuro, Krieg, Wapol, and Foxy.
O: Them?!! Why?! Why would you want to know?! I mean, okay, but...!
D: The Germa castle is kindawerrrp. Does that mean the people inside live their lives kind ofwerpy? P.N. Luck
O: Actually, it's not that they built a castle that turned allwerrrp, it's that they built it to the exact specifications to achieve that level ofwerrrp. If anything, the people who live there are extremely exacting and uptight!!
D: Hello, Oda Sensei! Basil Hawkins takes his horoscopes and fortunes seriously when he acts. If his lucky item for the day was a miniskirt, would he wear it? P.N. Moss Mink
O: Well, he's very confident in his fortune-telling, so I daresay he would wear it. His leg hair is quite thick.
D: In chapter 823, you introduced Sarie Nantokanette, queen of Goa. Is she based on Marie Antoinette? I'm so jealous of Sterry—he's ugly and horrible, yet he snagged a beautiful wife. I'm ugly and not rich, but I snagged my angry wife with my heart!! P.N. Chores Are Easy
O: Does everyone remember Sterry? He was Sabo's foster brother in Luffy's flashback from Volume 60. Somehow, in the present day, he's worked himself into the royal family and become king! What a punk! And I figured his queen was probably a horrible person too, so I gave her a lazy name! Isntoinette! What kind of name is that?! Don't worry! I'm sure your angry wife is way better than her!
D: Are those Reiju's bare legs? Are the 6 symbols drawn right on the skin? Isn't that kinda sexy? P.N. Takataka
O: Ah, I see. You suspect she might be wearing tights. No worries!! Those are straight-up tattoos!!!
D: According to Den's explanation on page 36 of volume 63, anyone in Fish-Man island can have any kind of child. What's the situation with the minks, then? P.N. OP Girl
O: Same property. There are all biological patterns on Zou: deer with a fox child, or pandas with a panda child, etc.

D: Oda Sensei! I've come to ask a question! \(^∀^)/ So, I was reading volume 80 recently. And then Koala said, "What?! We're going to bring all those intense people here again?!!" So it occurred to me...Can you tell Koala something? Um, Koala...Pretty much everyone in One Piece is intense!! Welp, bye! P.N. Nodo
O: Very true!!!
D: Oda Sensei!! Please tell me who from the Straw Hat Pirates like to chew their ice, and who don't? P.N. Goal and Gorilla Pupil No.19 Iona
O: Oh yeah, here we go. The really pointless questions! And I'm gonna answer it! Because the motto of the SBS is "You're not missing out if you don't read it"!!
Luffy
Usopp
Chopper
Robin
Brook
Zoro
Nami
Sanji
Franky
More people crunch their ice than I expected...
D: Since in chapter 833, you said all four kids were born on the same day, does that mean that Ichiji, Niji, and Yonji are all 21 years old, born on March 2? How old is Reiju? Also, tell me the blood types and heights of the other Vinsmoke siblings. P.N. Katana★Roman
O: Okay. They're identical quadruplets. Reiju was born three years earlier, so she's 24 now. They're each slightly different in build, although it's not striking in number form. I wonder why Sanji turned out so different? It must have something to do with Germa's science.

And that's the end of our time! See you in next volume's SBS!!
Translated byVIZ Media.
Translations may have been modified since the original versions.
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 85.

D: Hi Odacchi! I've been counting. Ever since that faithful day in volume 10 when Timmy Ueda first stole the SBS title call (which started in volume 4), readers have begun the SBS corner 60 times! (Doom!) I simply cannot believe that they would be shameless enough to steal your glory!! Go on, Oda Sensei. Scream those words as loud as you can today. Say the words, "the SBS has begun!!!" And once again, the reader proudly proclaims, "Start the SBS!!!"—Shokotan
O:The SBS has begun!!!> I said it!! Thank you!! Wait, noooo!!!> This is not what I want!! (waiting)
D: Would Heraclesun be really bad atshitori, the word game where you have to start each word with the last letter of the previous word? --Seikun
O:Well since you lose by ending a word in "n," I'd say so.
D: In chapter 840, "The Iron Mask," young Sanji was reading a storybook about Noland. But I'm more curious about that book of Devil Fruits sitting next to him! That must be the book he used to find out about the Clear-Clear fruit in chapter 464!! --Dorry
O:Well spotted. Sanji did indeed mention both books before in his travels.
D : Heso Oda sensei!! Although the Mink tribe are animals, in Volume 82 the food that was dished out to Luffy contained meat. It's cannibalism, don't you think? It has been bothering me and I am sleeping 5 hours everyday. P.N. Gurumayuki
O: Truly, even with 81 volumes meat is still eaten so vigorously (sfx : mori mori). The answer was there. Carrot says this in 807. The meat comprises of "hippo, lizard, crocodile and frog". And etc. As the Mink Tribe are born hairy, they do not eat hairy animals but eat meat of fowl and amphibians that do not possess hair.
D: This Nami character figure I bought, where should I decorate it? P.N. Captain Nobuo
O: I don't know!!
D: Odacchi...I will start this SBS.
........I mean, it has already started. P.N. Kakkun Shogo
O: What the...!!
D: Odacchi! The Pudding-chan who appeared in chapter 850 had a third eye on her forehead!! Having said that, is the girl who appeared in chapter 651 Pudding-chan? It's clear that it is, isn't it! P.N. Resident of Newkama Land
O: That's right! Nitro was also there.
D: Why don't Sanji's eyes turn into hearts when he is talking with Reiju? P.N. Match & Takeshi
O: That's how it is with brothers and sisters, right? I used to get in numerous fights with my elder sister when I was a kid. It would be weird if Sanji turns his eyes into hearts to talk with Reiju.
D: Who is the fastest crewmate when they run a 50-meter race? P.N. Nagatanigawa
O: It's hard to answer..

D: Big Mom is a woman, but she uses the masculine pronoun, "Ore" (おれ). Why is this? P.N. Youth Age 12
O: Even today, there are regions of the country where women still use thepronoun"ore" when referring to themselves. In the past, it was once used equally by both men and women, so I didn't really think it was that unusal of an idea. But if that's weird to you, I'm surprised that I didn't get more questions about the pronoun that I completely invented for Ivankov, "Vatashi" (ヴァターシ).
D: How can I become a editor in Jump? Did editors graduate from famous colleges? P.N. Koichiro
O: I can feel your sincerity about this, Koichiro. You really want to be an editor, don't you? As a matter of fact, many editors do have higher education degrees. But they're all freaks and perverts. The only requirement for hiring at Shueisha, the publisher ofJump, is a degree from a four-year college. You don't need to have graduated from a very famous university to take the company test. And everyone turns into a pervert as a result of all the studying. Keep your head straight, work hard, and you can be my editor someday, Koichiro.
D: Can I lick the syrup off of Nami's body? P.N. Chamoro Shimizu
O: It's you again, you pervert!! You keep ruining the morals of this manga!! But hang on!! I feel like the handwriting on this postcard is different!! Did you always have such nice handwriting?! You better not be an imposter!! If this isn't the real Chamoro...you can go.
No, you can't!!! Don't send me these postcards, whoever you are!!
D: The 2nd division commander before Ace is me. P.N. Capt. Nobuo
O: You're kidding!!
D: In the "sons' cups" scene in chapter 800 (volume 80), there's a panel where everyone holds out their cups. On the sound effect bubble, there are eight marks! But there are seven of them! So who was the last one?! Tell us! P.N. Mutsu 2
O: Whoa...! You noticed that?! Who does that?! It does seem weird that there are seven cups, and yet the sound effect is coming from eight directions. This is kind of like a live-TV incident. As a matter of fact, the last one belongs to some old lady who just wandered by. I'm very sorry. She's very sorry too, so I hope you can let this one slide.
D: What is a heart full of belief? P.N. Rukia, age 12
O: It could be, for example, the strength of mind not to be led astray by the deceptive lies of adults who cannot admit their own mistakes. You have to be strong enough to say, "No old lady's just gonna be 'passing by' on a boat! That makes no sense!!"

D: If Doflamingo took off his glasses, what would he look like? P.N. Saki & Shun
O: Oh! Good timing! Look, Doflamingo's about to remove his glasses right now!!

O: Aaaaah!! Underneath his sunglasses was another pair of sunglasses!! So what's underthatpair, then?!
D: Hello, Oda Sensei! My birthday is October 11. There were no characters on my birthday so far, so I came up with an idea! 10/11 could beichi (1) ban oo (0) kii wan-wan (1 1 ), meaning "the biggest doggy"! That could be the birthday for Duke Inuarashi, Ruler of Day of the Mokomo Dukedom!! P.N. Masaju
O: What?! You want to decide it just like that?! Okay.
D: My birthday is July 9, but there aren't any characters that share it! So how about if Sanji's mother, Vinsmoke Sora, was born on 7/9? July for its beautiful clear "sky" (sora), and 9 for the ku sound in "Vinsmoke"! P.N. Space Planet Peace
O: Oof, what a stretch! You know what? I'm not going...to turn that down!!
D: Oda-sensei! I thought of a birthday. The most famous of all the hidden characters ofOne Piece, Pandaman, is born on February 29th. (Because it's a special day that's usually hiding.) P.N. Kajusa
O: Oh man, that's perfect! But I can't just rubber-stamp that...unless I do! Do you share a birthday with any characters? You can check the birthday calendar on the one-piece.com website.
D: You said Zoro doesn't eat ice in the previous SBS, but he ate it in chapter 701. P.N. Dobbin
O: !!!.....Right...
Yeah... It looks that way, right?!
Yeah. Well... It only looks like he's eating his ice. Just an impression. But the thing is...Zoro doesn't have a mustache, soooo...I dunno, that might not be Zoro...y'know? So that's probably not him. I mean...is that Zolo? I'm not sure...
D: In chapter 845, I spotted three other characters who look just like Opera. Are they identical quadruplets, just like Sanji and his brothers? P.N. ?
O: Technically, they're quintuplets, but you don't see the last one. There's Opera, fifth son of Charlotte; Counter, the sixth son; Cadenza, the seventh son; Cabaletta, the eighth son; and Gala, the ninth son. Big Mom is currently 68 years old, and for about 42 years, she had children annually. Yet she had 85 children, so there are tons of twins and triplets. The biggest batch is a decuplet bunch who are all 18 years old now—five boys and five girls!! Big Mom, indeed!!
D: In the corner of page 58 of volume 83, is Nami wearing armor? Is that just a sign of how much she fears an Emperor of the Sea? And the way she takes it off in an instant is super impressive!! P.N. Kawamacho
O: Uh, that was her gear from fighting the sea ants the night before. She changed because they reached the island. And now, we're out of time! See you in the SBS next volume!!
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 86.

D: Hello, this is Eiichiro Oda. I look forward to answering all the perverted questions for you guys this week. Well, let's begin...the SBS!
O: It's a F.A.K.E....!! Stop it! Stop pretending to be me!! This is an injustice! The SBS is not a perverted corner! This is a wholesome place! This is the worst opening!!
D: Oda-sensei, after the introduction of Reiju's underwear, I imagine that you received a lot of fan letters, but I think it's fine. Mankind used to go around naked a long time ago. For the sight of panties to make your heart go crazy, that indicates that you do not have enough discipline. -P.N. My heart started pounding and I got a nosebleed.
O: Your pen name indicates a spirit with a wicked heart!!
D: Hello, Oda-sensei. In chapter 858, there's another Nami bathing scene, but it'll be really awkward when it comes on the anime while the family is watching. What should I do when that time comes? -P.N. Sanadacchi
O: This corner is indecent!! Strange... P.N. Sanadacchi, is this ok? Please listen well. Mankind used to go around naked a long time ago. For the sight of a bathing scene to make your heart go crazy, doesn't that just indicate that you do not have enough discipline?
P.S. While I was drawing the manuscript, my heart started pounding and I got a nosebleed.
D: Please make Urouge cute. P.N. Aji Shio
O: It was impossible.
D: Odacchi!! I decided to decorate my TV stand with this figure of Nami. P.N. Captain Nobuo
O: Yes. I understand. Next.
D: Odacchi sensei!! Please state your current feeling using a phrase from One Piece in 3...2...1...!! P.N.
O: No way. It's all sticky. (Phrase)
D: Please tell me the name of the big black cat in the Hawkins Pirates. I like that he's relatively cute. Is he a mink? P.N. Law's character design is so cool
O: Uhm.... Black...? A black cat? Does he appear black? Is... just cat fine? This cat is as you say. He's a mink. He's a member of the Hawkins Pirate crew. His name is Faust, and he's like a magician... but what kind of magic can he use? He meowably (probably) uses some sort of Meowgic. (<-Joking)
D: Hello, Oda sensei. Whitebeard always has a bandana wrapped around his head, so is it because he was bald? I want you to draw what kind of hairstyle he had. P.N. Sanadacchi
O: Like this. According to rumors.
D: Hello, Oda sensei! I have a request for Carrot, the talented drawer. I wish for her to draw a picture of the similar looking sisters Lola and Chiffon. Thank you very much.:redheart::redheart: P.N. Kimochi-chan
O: I see, let's ask her.
Carrot: Ok! That's fine!
O: Oh..oh...
D: I am a 16 year old fan of Charlotte Katakuri. I know this is straightaway, but I have a question sensei. In Totto Land, there are people that have necks longer than normal humans. Are these people from the snakeneck tribe? If I'm right, please make my neck long too using the Germa 66's "Press". P.N. Mino Gorilla
O: Yes, they are from the snakeneck tribe who were in the slave lists in Sabaody and haven't appeared in the story till now. They're in the town as well as also part of BM's children. These people are the 34th son Mascarpone and the 29th daughter Joscarpone. They are a pair of close twins.
D: Are tattoos on legs a fashion among long legs? P.N. Match to Takeshi
O: That's correct. Long leg tribe members have self-confidence in their beautiful and long legs. Blue Gilly who appeared in Dressrosa was like that, and it has become a piece of fashion to uncover their legs and show off their tattoos. Baron Tamago does not appear to be that type, however.
D: On page 28 in chapter 850 in volume 85, there's the bento that Sanji made. When you compare to the SBS on page 188 in volume 35, you can see that it exactly matches what was the crews' favorite meals, but I can't figure out the food on the left of the sandwich. Is it Brook's favorite food, which wasn't written in volume 45's SBS? Please tell me. P.N. OP girl
O: Ok. You've looked at this a lot. While making Pudding's bento, he was thinking of them in his heart! It was that kind of scene. It's full of the crews' favorite foods. And that amount. He wasn't just thinking about making it for just one girl...Well, here's the menu.
Meat - Luffy, 
White rice - Zoro, 
Seasonal fish - Usopp, 
Pasta - Sanji, 
Hamburger - Franky, 
Sandwich - Robin, 
Mikan - Nami, 
Chocolate - Chopper
And of course there's the one item you couldn't figure out, and the correct answer is the curry for Brook! Brook loves curry, but his eating manners are terrible, so Sanji doesn't really let him eat it.
D: Oda sensei, hello. The bento that Luffy ate at the promised place with Sanji... does not look good no matter how you look at it, yet Luffy said "Delicious~". This is because his feeling of gratitude became a top-grade seasoning, right? I complain about my wife's cooking, and the food starts to not come. P.N. I have nothing to eat but my wife's cooking.
O: Those are words to ruin your life, you know. Take responsibility for your actions. (Lol)
D: Odacchi, nice to meet you! I've thought this since reading volume 1 but when the OP characters want to express gratitude, no matter what the character's tone, they say 'arigatou', they don't really say 'thank you' (in English) or 'my thanks' (doumo). Is there some kind of hangup about it?
O: Oh amazing you've come this far, this is our 20th year (laughs) This is a hangup. People like Zoro especially are awkward and are characters who will change their speech
From my perspective, guys who want to appear cool and speak ambiguously, if they think it's not cool, they will choose the straightest 'arigatou' so as not to make the flow of speech weird.
The anime scriptwriters will sometimes make them say 'thank you' and I will think 'ah..'. It's not something most viewers would notice, not to the extent that someone would press me on it. Well, I guess it's my personal hangup. Thanks for noticing it!
D: Odacchi hello! Do den den mushis have a silent mode? Honestly aren't there times when you think 'don't ring!'? Can you change the volume of the ringtone or something like that?
O: Denden mushis are living creatures so it depends on how you train them. To place on silent mode, say 'Shh' and nod your head. Volume might depend on their training and what you feed them.
D: I want to tell father 'Everyone has the power to change the channel!'
O: To you, who still lives at home and not independently, since you're dependent on your father, is it really equal..
O: Spot the differences! Thank you for this one, Yucchan's Papa!! Find the answers on page 188!
D: Odacchi, heso!! I heard that the 25th of every month is "Pudding Day". How about Pudding-chan's birthday be 6/25 for Charlotte (6) Pudding (25)? P.N. Dorii
O: Uhm... It's not a question of what do you think, really. To decide the day a someone's born that way...!! Fine.
D: I have something I importantly need to discuss. Please make Reiju's birthday 11/30, with 11 from (いい女 TN: literally good girl/woman), the 3 from (sanji's sister), and the 0 from (Reiju). That's my reasoning! Thank you very much! P.N. THE-MORIO
O: Ehhh!? Hey, wait a minute!! You listen well now!? That's fine.
D: Good afternoon, Odacchi! In order for me to also fill up the calendar, I've thought long and hard about the birthdays for several characters. It's a lot, so forgive me.
O: Whoaaaaa! Hang on, hang on, hang on!! You can't just throw a whole pile of birthdays at me...and just expect me...to decline them!
D: Hello, Oda sensei! I have a question, is the Zepo who appeared in chapter 850 the same brother that Bepo was separated from in the brief story from volume 84's SBS. Or are they bears who just resemble each other? P.N. Mihashiharu
O: They do resemble each other! That's correct. Pedro led the Nox expedition party who were chased by the government for searching for poneglyphs, thus they became the Nox Pirates. That's a story from about 15 years ago. Bepo loved his older brother Zepo, and when he climbed down Zou to get a view of the sea, he was swept away. One thing led to another, and he found his way to the North Blue. He then met Law. Meanwhile, the Nox Pirates were wounded and had morale issues, so Pekoms lead the others who couldn't continue their journey, leaving just Pedro and Zepo. And then Pekoms and the others arrived in Big Mom's territory. There their lives were saved, and they entered her care. Pedro and Zepo, who continued searching for poneglyphs, eventually set their sights on Big Mom's poneglyph five years later, and by coincidence Pedro and Pekoms came face to face once again.
D:I really want to see Charlotte Linlin, 28 and 48 years old. Please!! P.N. M Natsuo
O: Okay.
Ah, it's time! SBS is over! See you~!! After this, it will be a page of various 20th anniversary projects!
Translated by Oro Jackson Forum users Zoro4Prez2016 and Den_Den_Mushi.
Translations may have been modified since the original versions.
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 87.

D: Ever since I was a kid, I've liked animals, so I've really enjoyed the arrival of the Minks! To express my gratitude for this, my pet cat has one thing to say...
Nyaaaa! (SBS Start!)
P.N. Uranium Rabbit Year Y
O:A caaaaaat!! It was started by a caaaaaat...!!
D: Odacchi!! Hello!!!Bege's child has a face just like his and there appears to be facial hair under his nose, but as a baby, how does he already have facial hair? How far down does it go...? If... that... is how it is... changing diapers, doesChiffonnot dislike it? P.N. Portgas D Ayasu
O:Firstly, Chiffon doesn't dislike it. Because she's his mother! Now, the triangular part under BabyPez's nose. Well, if you think about it normally, it's like Don Takosu, right? Well I think so. It looks like whiskers. Now the answer is! Do....Beard....Chin hair....!!I WON'T TELL!!
D: Is it alright if I lickSmoothie's legs? said Shimizucha Moro. ​P.N. Match and Takeshi
O:That bastard!!
D: Have more pink scenes!! Gao!! said Simizucha Moro. P.N. Match and Takeshi
O:That bastard!!
D: Odacchi, hello! InChapter 858, there's a scene whereLuffyandBrookrestore their teeth with milk, I think, but... can everyone in theStraw Hat Piratesfix their teeth with milk? P.N. Makizou
O:Yep. That'll fix it.
D: Reveal the name of Red-HairedShanks's sword. P.N. Kooshi
O:Sure. I think it's called "Gryphon". We've known Shanks ever since the veryfirst chapter, but I wonder how does he actually fight.
D: Oda-san, hello!!Vinsmoke JudgeandSanji's hair are yellow. If this is so, did the remaining four children in theVinsmoke Familydye their hair when they were little? Or was it caused by theLineage Factor? from Kunlun Pretzel
O:This question is from overseas, huh. Certainly the brothers having different hair colors is odd, I guess. You've already given the answer. This is because of the manipulated Lineage Factor. Sanji was the only one not affected, so he and his father have the same hair color.
D: I knowPudding's true form, but I still love her. P.N. Cute is Justice
O:You're going down an evil path. Men are sad things.
D: Oda-sen... Odacchi, hello! I was reading volume 86 and really became a fan of Katakuri. In chapter 873, why did Daifuku (the third son) refer to Katakuri (the second son) without a honorific? Are they twins who don't resemble one another? Why is Katakuri the only one who is not a minister? Please tell me his age and height!! -P.N. C(Charlotte) Yurie
O: Yeees. That's a bunch of Katakuri questions coming in fast!! There's no way Daifuku is his twin! Actually, they're triplets! They're 48 years old.
There are 34 islands with 34 Ministers in Totto Land. It's all handled by Big Mom's children although that's what I have decided, but I'm not sure whether to show all information or not. There are just too many profound/background settings.
D: Baron Tamago has the power of the Tama Tama no Mi, so after he turns into Count Niwatori, how does he turn back into Baron Tamago? -P.N. Match and Takeshi
O: Here it is. Tamago comes after Niwatori. This is for anyone who doesn't understand.
Baron Tamago gets killed -> Hiyoko is born. Viscount Hiyoko gets killed -> Niwatori is born. Count Niwatori gets killed -> Tamago is born. Baron Tamago... and continue.
D: Odacchi!! Hello!! This is sudden, but there's something I want. That is Kizaru, Fujitora, Akainu, and Aokiji as the opposite gender!! Can you even do that?
O:Sure. I regret it!!
D: Oda-san, hello! In the color cover forChapter 874,AceandSaboare making angry faces, but what happened? Shanks is laughing... P.N. Sakuraki Chisaki
O:Let's listen carefully.
O:That's why Ace learned manners from Makino long ago, to thank Shanks.
D: Oda-sensei, hello. In chapter 852, there's a scene where Jinbe saves Luffy and Nami. At the time, Nami's clothes are ruined. But I turn the page and she's dressed! Moreover, in the previous panel it goes "goso goso (sound effect)" and is that Nami changing clothes!? What is she doing? Tell me, Odacchi. -P.N. Save Me from Summer Break Homework
O: Yep, she got new clothes. Because the old ones were ruined.
It's okay.
D: Oda-san, in the cover for chapter 862, Shanks has Hanafuda cards! A "Shikou" (kanji is four light)! ... "Just a Yonko (kanji is four stars)"!! -P.N. Shinboku-kun
O: Nooo you noticed that- amazing!
Yes, that hand in Hanafuda is called a "Shikou (kanji for four light)."
It is read as "Shikou," but it does seem to suggest Shanks's future as one of the Yonko. Well done.
D: Odacchi, what's up! My birthday's on the 24th of May, but no character has the same birthday! (Cry) This might be really selfish, (5)Gohan [meal] (2)Ninjin [carrot] (4)Shiro Usagi [White Rabbit] forCarrot's birthday! How's that sound? P.N. Cool
O:What!? It's fine. What a cute problem.
D: Hello. I want to fill the Birthday Calender!
How are these birthdays? -P.N. Shin
O:Hey, hey, hey, deciding that's... fine.
Yes here! Because I can't explain the birthday deciding postcards, I think you should go look at the online presentation. Use a proper pen name at ONEPIECE.COM's official page where you can go fill out the birthday days. Is your birthday taken? Anyways, please take a look at the home page. What is wanted in SBS is unchanged.
D:KidandKillerare the two who dislike curry udon, but what happened in the past to cause that...??' -from Rebell-chan
O:Those two are good friends, and at the same time they loved being partners from the beginning, they took on Shiruton Doruyanaika-chan together, that day they ate curry udon, and when they finished saw Doruyanaika-chan, her whole body was dyed brown, the two laughed and she hit them both real good. It's a bitter memory of their youth. Yes! Until next volume.
The following extra birthdays were revealed with SBS 87:
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 88.

Katakuri: Eiichiro Oda, you will now say, "SBS begins!!
O:↑ Eeeeeeeh!? How do you know that!? Damnit, someone read my future! I really was going to say that...!! Gulp...
D: Odacchi, Garchu.♡♡ Does thisMink Tribe's greeting, Garchu, comes from Nepalese "Timilai Maya Garchu (I love you)" right? P.N. I want Wanda to Garchu me
O:Yes, that's right. That's exactly right about the Minks.
D:I WANT TO GARCHU WITHNAMI.P.N. Captain Nobuo
O:Fine. Next.
D: AreCarrotandWanda's boobs furry? Or are they smooth? P.N. Gankuri
O:I see, well since their whole bodies are covered in furry, they would be furry...HEY HEY! STOP IT!!What have you started with this simply perverted question...!! Ah...! Sorry for getting upset. You're not an adult yet.
D: Odacchi, save me -I recently caught the "If I don't scarf food likeLuffy, I'll die disease." from S Hiroto
O:This is what it is-! I want to answer a questions from hilarious kids. Hey Hiroto-kun. Don't eat too much! You run the risk of getting hypoglycemia and by repeatedly overeating there may be a decline in your physical strength and insomnia among other symptoms with the possibility of getting a major disease. Are you feeling stressed by your job? In regards to how you have your meals...I'M SORRY!! YOU'RE NOT AN ADULT YET!!(cries)
D: Smoothie's squeezed drinks have unimaginable flavors, but there is one I know!! Kirin!! [This is a big Japanese Brewery name, like Budweiser in America, but also the word for giraffe] That's what adults drink. Do you like it Odacchi? P.N. Ryota Ehara
O:That's right! Good job knowing that. In this panel,Stussysays it is tasty and smooth. It's a mystery- how if you squeeze a giraffe, beer comes out of it! I want to gulp it down on a hot day.
D: Who is the panda girl with the split mouth that is Big Mom's subordinate? P.N. OP Girl
Left: Galette, right: Poire
O:Right. That is the 19th daughter of theCharlotte Family,Charlotte Poire. She has the same father as the Minister of Butter,Galette, and they are twins.
D: Hello, Odacchi!! Please tell us the two commanders, Smoothie and Cracker's age and height!! P.N. Mochi Mochi Donuts
D: Hello! Odacchi!! Ufufufufu... I was immediately taken in by Charlotte Perospero~♡♡ The more I see him, the more I like him...♡♡ Please tell us his height and his favorite/least favorite foods~♡♡♡ (P.N. Charlotte Family Lover)
O:Yes. Here's the answers to those two questions!
Charlotte Perospero50 years old333 cmLikes: CandyDislikes: Peppermint Candy
Charlotte Cracker45 years old307 cmLikes: BiscuitsDislikes: Kimchi and Carbonated Drinks
Charlotte Smoothie35 years old464 cmLikes: SmoothiesDislikes: Meat
D: Oda-sensei!!!! He kept his promise.♡ Will you come to the wedding? P.N. Shogo Michibata
O:That's! Everyone, please take a look at this, please. From thevolume 58 SBS:↓
They're getting married!! Thanks to the SBS!? (laughs) I guess it can help people, this Corner. I can't go to the wedding, but congratulations! May your life be filled with happiness~♡ I published your second letter (laughs)
D:Katakuriis really an ikemen [handsome, perfect guy]. His model is definitelyME, RIGHT?P.N. Sana Pii (Sanadacchi)
O:Yes. That might be right.
D:Lola&Chiffonare really hags. Their models are definitely my wife, right? P.N. The Inner Woman (Sanadacchi)
O:It'll be good if you're crushed by a single wife. Sanadacchi.
D:Pezis so cute. But our son is cuter. P.N. Sanadacchi
O:Sounds like you're happy after all, good for you!!
D: Oda-sensei, hello! What do you think of Katakuri-san,Daifuku-san, andOven-san's birthday being November 25 (a play on number pronunciations and such in the phrase "iioniisan mitsugo" meaning "three good big brothers")? P.N. Sakuragi
O:What do I think, you ask, I don't think anything about! It's fine!
D: If theWorst Generation's rookies had to work in the real world, what would their jobs be? P.N. Neat
D: Hello [in English] Odacchi! Involume 56, you told us what countries theStraw Hat Pirateswould come from, but I want you tell us which countries the Supernovas would come from too!!!! If Odacchi is nice, won't you tell us!? (Expectant) P.N. Torakin [Tiger Money/Gold]
O:Fine. I'll answer the two questions about the Worst Generation together! You already  know about Luffy andZoro. I'll put Killer's answer with Kid's picture.
Marshall D. TeachSomaliaArcheologist
Eustass "Captain" KidScotlandWeapons Merchant(Killer: Pasta Shop)
Trafalgar LawGermanyDoctor
Capone "Gang" BegeItalyShoe Shop
Scratchmen ApooChinaDJ
Basil HawkinsEgyptInterior Designer
X DrakeTurkeyZookeeper
Jewelry BonneyAustraliaPizza Shop
UrougeIndiaCabaret Club Manager
This is my proper imagining of them.
D: Hello, Odacchi! There's something I noticed. Katakuri isn't supposed to eat in front of people, yet involume 86, in the 3rd panel of the 3rd page ofChapter 861, he eats something. Looking closely, there's a bite mark. P.N. Minamimaru
O:Good job finding that~ (laughs) Yes. It's not that Katakuri doesn't eat in front of people. He doesn't let other people see him eat. Now let me show you.
Could you see it!? You couldn't see it. He wasn't born with a split mouth. Actually this speed has a source cause, but... I might reveal that in the main story, I'm still thinking about it.
D: How much to stay at Rook Bege for a night? P.N. Match and Takeshi
O:Since it's inside Bege's body, if he approves, you're in. Just paying won't mean you get to stay.
D: Lately there's been a lot of tall guys, like Katakuri andDoflamingo, coming out one after the other, but about how many meters tall is the shortestgiant? P.N. BENI
O:Firstly,Big Mom's height, who looks like a giant, is 8m 80 cm. She's bigger thanWhitebeard. On the other hand, the shortest real giant is 12m, so they are about two heads taller than Big Mom. The full length of a large bus or truck is about 12m or so. Please think of this feeling as if you'd found a giant laying down.
D: Hello, Odacchi. Inchapter 883, you revealed Katakuri's shocking true face, so is it Odacchi's policy to not draw perfect characters? Incidentally, because of this, I feel closer to Katakuri. If he has to carry around such an image, it would really build up stress. P.N. Minamimaru
O:How nice, Minamimaru-kun! Explosive laughter at Katakuri. Explosive laughter! You ask if it's a policy, but perfect people are so boring. People love other people's flaws. (Deep story)
D: Where is the Young Master right now? P.N. Sama Prince
O:Level 6 ofImpel Down.
D: DidOtsuru-san bring the newspaper to Doflamingo every day because he desired it? P.N. Coo
O:No way, you shouldn't give that kind of service to a single prisoner. But Doflamingo seems to have a lot of acquaintances in the prison. I'm sure he gets his hands on the newspaper from time to time using his cunning hand. Fufufufu!!
D: DoesLao Grinse? P.N. Suka Junky
O:Ummm.I DON'T KNOW, YOU BASTARD!!
? I don't know a beautiful woman like you.
D: What does Luffy consider a 'beauty'? If he calledAlvidaa beauty, then why he aren't other beauties, like Nami,Robin, andHancock, considered 'beauties'? P.N. Nrimatomogisu
O:It's true that he indeed called Alvida a beauty. However, when normal people say 'a beauty' they mean it as a compliment, but in Luffy's case, it's just a classification. Luffy understands whether a face is pretty or not, but he doesn't care about that.
D: Of the One Piece world's mail delivery staff, can theCarrier Batsdeliver packages too? Do pirate crews exchange mid and end of year gifts with each other? P.N. Boneless Ham
O:I don't want to see pirates getting along like that. It doesn't happen. Carrier Bats are mainly used as a means of contact by theWorld Government. For private letters, one can negotiate with aNews Cooto deliver it. There's also a private company called "Small Bird Delivery", but they have a small space and short distance. "Albatross Delivery" does long distance, but there's a lot of things they won't deliver. Mail services outside of the government's just aren't that developed. For deliveries between pirates, it's common to use boats. They don't have addresses either, so parting ways with people is heavier than we can imagine.
D: Hello. Oda-sensei. I counted your answered questions (including non-questions) in the SBS. (The drawings and games were omitted). I'm not sure if it's right, but here!!!! 1,199 questions (from volumes4to86) do-don!! How amazing. So do your best going forward to answer things like more "That's a question!?" questions and "serious questions" and "there's an idiot questions" and "Strange (perverted or dirty) questions." [drawn peace sign hand] (laughs) P.N. BLACK Little Brat
O:You counted the number of questions!? Thanks a lot. I've already answered over 1,200 questions, I see. Every time I'm sincerely glad I can talk with all you readers in this corner. I want this to be precious!
D: I have a question for you Odacchi! Does DonChinjaorinse? Hiyahoho hiyahoho P.N. Suka Junky
O:SHUT UP, YOU BASTARD!!Well, that's the SBS until the next volume.
The following extra birthdays were revealed with SBS 88:
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 89.

D: DidStreusen-Sama fall on his right eye? That's quite strange, isn't it!! Good morning! I'll start the SBS. -P.N. Dori
O:It's not his right eye, rather he fall on the right side of his forehead, that's probably what you're talking about. In that situation he acted like an honorable man... It started alreadyyy!!!?
D:Nami-san calledCaesar“Scum”, “Garbage”, and told him that “It would be better if you died”. Did she get influenced byRobin-chan’s potty-mouth (toxic-tongue)? -P.N. Dori
O:Please remember what happened onPunk Hazard. Caesar fed the children stimulants, called his subordinates guinea pigs, and dedicates his whole life to creating a weapon of genocide. He truly is a man where it would be better off if he was dead. Even though Nami is only kind to those in need (women and children), I truly think she hates Caesar from the bottom of her heart.
D: Oda-sensei, nice to meet you! AboutKatakuri, we know that he likes to eat sweets, but in matter of disliking, what is his least favorite food, is it spicy food? -P.N. Yukito
O:His least favorite food is hot ramen. When dining with others, being seen while eating is his mortal weakness, which is why he hates ramen. Spicy food is fine though.
D: Hello Oda-sensei. How does Katakuri sleep? -P.N. Tattsu
O:Because of his myth of "strength" of his back never having touched the ground, he sleeps on walls. So basically, he leans on a wall, relaxes down, stands still and falls asleep while sitting.
D: Oda-sensei, will you let me marry my son (three years old) to one ofBig Mom's daughters? Not only would I have a big power at my service, but I would also get a suuuuperrrr powerful daughter in law! What do you say, isn't is a great idea? -P.N. The Sanada family and the Charlotte family's political marriage
O:Yes, please do not ask me, ask Big Mom herself directly! Next!
D: Please tell us what areCrocodileandDaz Bonez’ favorite foods and most hated foods. I think a boss like Crocodile who likes Bananawani (Banana Crocodiles) wouldn’t eat bananas or crocodile meat. My older sister thinks he dislikes mandarin oranges (mikan). We got into a fight about whether it’s hard for him to remove his fake hand. P.N. Banana Me and Mandarin Sister
O:
Crocodile:Likes: Crocodile meat and tomatoesDislikes: Ketchup
Daz Bones (Mr. 1):Likes: Raw HamDislikes: Grilled pork
This sounds about right!! The fact that he keeps crocodiles as pets doesn’t really affect what is difficult for him to eat. When you look at what these two like to eat they sure seem like an annoying pair to please.
D: I read the manga and watched the anime and noticed that afterLuffyusesGear 4, he not only can’t useHakifor 10 minutes but it also carries the tradeoff (risk) of being so fatigued that he can’t move. However, inCh. 885he is moving totally normally right? Why isn't that tradeoff there anymore? -P.N. BUSHI
O:The tradeoff of not being able to move that you’re referring to never existed in the first place. If he wanted to move but couldn’t use Haki during that time, he could still run from place to place to hide. In Dressrosa, after using Gear Fourth, he coincidentally ran into his allies and supporters so he could preserve his energy while they carried him to the next fight. If those people weren’t there then Luffy would just have to do his best!
D: Does semla actually exist? I want to eat it! -P.N. Odamania
O:Semla is a thing. it's a Swedish sweet. There was this period of time four days before Christmas where everybody fasted. it's an old tradition. Before they fasted, they ate the aforementioned "semla". The tradition in Elbaph is the same as the one of that place. I've never tried semla either. I want to eat it!
D: Oda-san!! Hello!! There is a place called "Oshimuna Town" inVol. 88page 132, which means “don’t be stingy” town. Who is the minister of this island? - P.N. Ehara Ryōta
O:It may sound strange because of this weird name, but it makes more sense with the Island's name. The full name is Oshimuna Town onKinko Island. The minister is 15th sonNoisette. He is in charge of the finance in Totto Land. So this town means don’t be stingy about making delicious food on this Kinko Island! That's the just of it.
D: About the Charlotte Family's 26th son,Charlotte Bavarois' hat has net glasses on it, is it like one of those old so-called "mysterious net" hats? -P.N. Manager
O:You've got it right! That's correct, it's from a long time ago. When I was a child, all the young boys were wearing these "mysterious net" hats. Upon looking it up, it appears their correct name is "mesh" hats. I wonder if those caps can be still found around. It made me happy you noticed it. They're cool, aren't they?
D: InCh. 891Flampecoined the term “King of Big Brothers” who turned out to be Katakuri. Among Big Mom’s 85 children, who is the “King of Big Sisters”, “King of Little Brothers”, and “King of Little Sisters”? P.N. OP Girl that asks troublesome questions
O:Okay, first let’s start with what Flampe said in that chapter. The “Best Imōto-est Award” is something that Flampe selfishly hosts on her own. She is a very diligent child so she passes a survey along to everyone in the family. The final results of each sibling division are out. Let’s announce the TOP 3.
In the first place, the contest is rigged because the number of votes each person can receive isn’t equal. The “King of Younger Sister” is really just something Flampe does for fun.
D: Hello Oda-sensei. I was readingCh. 894and isn’t Smoothie really huge?? Why?? What kind of power does she have? Also why is her sword wet in the same chapter? P.N. No Name OP Fan Whose Name Can Just Be That-chan
O:In the end, I wasn’t able to draw why that page was relevant in this arc but Smoothie ate the “Shibo Shibo no Mi” and became a dehydration human. She can squeeze the juice out of her enemies and slice them with her sword to pull out all their water content to completely dry them out. The water she steals can be stored in her own body, causing her to increase in size. She can also shoot the water out as an attack. She’s strong.
D: I’m a huge huge huge fan of Ace. If he didn’t die during the Summit War, what kind of face would he have? Please draw him at age 40 and age 60, Oda Eiichiro-sama~!! P.N. Daughter of Ace of the Whitebeard Crew.
O:Got it.
Top row:
Bottom row (a future if something happened/went wrong):
Hard to say what would have happened over the course of his life, but I drew these two patterns (possibilities).
D: Odacchi, hello!! On P. 145 ofChapter 866(Volume 86), during the scene showingHajrudin’s early childhood, there is a boy eating snacks behind him. Is this the same giant that appears on P.184 of Ch. 500, “PirateStansen”? P.N. C. Macaron
O:Good eye. You’re right, he’s Hajrudin’s childhood friend. In a very roundabout way, the man on the left (adult version) somehow ended up working under Luffy’sStraw Hat Grand Fleet.
D: Odacchi, hello! I am a big fan of both Odacchi and Luffy. I have a question today for Odacchi! When he was a kid, Monkey D. Garp’s eyes were the same as Luffy’s, big and round. However, when he became an adult, they became narrow. So what about Luffy’s eyes? Once he turns 20, will his eyes also become like Garp’s? -From Gokkudzuen
O:Okay, this question came from a translator in Vietnam in slightly awkward words. In short, will Luffy’s eyes become skinny like Garp’s once he turns 20? Since he turns 20 in only a year, I don’t think Luffy will be changing too much in such a short time. Similar to the drawings for Ace, for those wondering “What would Luffy look like at age 40 and age 60?” take a look!
Top row:
Bottom row (a future where something happened):

Right, in a future where things go well, he looks quite a lot like Garp doesn’t he? But in a future where something, somehow happens then who knows!! Okay, SBS is done!! Looking forward to next time!!
The following extra birthdays were revealed with SBS 89:
Translated bycalmdownrelax.
Translations may have been modified since the original versions.
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 90.

D: Hello, weeelcome, weeelcome! Cooling off SBS started! -P.N. Saya
O: Aah, is it that season already? It's been getting hotter. Gosh, which dish can I have? The sound of wind chimes is so comforting and nice. Oh, all done already? So can I have it? Slurp, slurp, slurp, chew, chew. Mmm, this right here is truly a cooling off SBS... HASN'T IT STARTED!?!? (Though it's not summer)
D: Nami's dream is to draw a map of the world from what she's seen with her own eyes. Is she drawing her world map properly? -P.N. Shoe Koko
O: Of course she is. Her routine every day is to draw maps after dinner. As the story progresses during the day, she has to give sailing instructions as the navigator, so there's a lot she has to do out on the deck.
D: Odacchi, heso!! On the cover illustration ofChapter 900, Chopper is looking at... Has he fallen in love or is it something else? Please do tell. Everyone wants Chopper to stay with his friends (laughs). -P.N. Daiya
O: He hasn't met anyone yet, but being half-human and half-reindeer, the only one he wants to date isMilkyfrom theMink Tribe. But if one day Chopper falls deeply in love even I wouldn't be able to stop him. Why is that? Because "LOVE ALWAYS COMES IN A HURRICANE"!!
D: Oda-chi, hello!! What is the crackling thing at the tips of Sweet Commander Cracker's hair? How is Cracker wearing his mantle? -P.N. Mocchi Mochi Donut
O: Well, the mantle is held in place by "spirit" like always, so the issue would be the crackling part. The truth is, I drew the this crackling while wondering what it is myself. Ahahahahaha. When I was designing him, it was just something cool to draw. "Well, it's good or whatever", I thought and I drew it. If you retrofit it, you can kind of get the image of a "Firecracker" from the name "Cracker". So it's the fuse to that?
D: Huh? Huuuh?? The Baratie has gotten bigger in chapter 902!!! Is their business expanding? Hooray! I want to tell Sanji-kun! by Chopa
O:Yep. That's right! In the cover story of chapter 625 the Baratie was in the middle of being renovated and this is its final form! Furthermore, the Meat Master Carne and the Patissier Patty run separate chain restaurants, so there are now 3 "Sea Faring Restaurant Baraties".
D: Hello Oda-sensei!! Big Mom has many ex-husbands, right? So how exactly did she pick her husbands?? Did she go on a lot of dates? - P.N. Big Mona
O: Being a pirate, she kidnapped them, had kids with them and then threw them away!! Her only goal was to have as many kids from every race as possible. A truly frightening woman.
D: What would happen to Totto Land if Big Mom got another craving for Wedding Cake and her hunger pangs aren't stopped? I don't think they could make that Wedding Cake again... -P.N. Akibee
O: Definitely! You're so nice to worry about what will happen to Totto Land later, Akibee-san. Well, they'd probably have to flee Totto Land for a while, right? But the New World is a dangerous sea. Normally, one of the things the name "Big Mom" does is protect the family and the citizens. So even if a serious threat might come, they will stick with Big Mom. This is the harsh reality of living in Totto Land, a country protected by one of the "Great Powers"! (Seriously!)
D: IsGerd-chan who lived with Big Mom in her childhood and the New Giant Warriors Pirates' beautiful ship's doctor Gerd from the cover appearance in chapter 902 the same person? -P.N. Saving Hand
O: Yes, that's correct. 63 years ago Big Mom was 5 years old and Gerd was 12 years old. So Big Mom is currently 68 years old and Gerd is 75 years old. As I've said before, giants live for about 300 years, so she's still quite young.
D: Flaming Attachan appeared in chapter 905, right? He called Morgans "Boss", so is he affiliated with the World Economic Journal now? Fire!! -P.N. Match and Takeshi
O: Yep. That was the well-known cameraman "FlamingAttachan". He used to be the captain of the Marine Photography Department, but after forgetting to take the camera lens cap off 57 times he got fired. After that, Morgans picked him up. Currently, Flaming Attachan shouts "Fire!" for the WE and uses a camera without a cap.
D: Oda-san, hello! After Luffy beat Katakuri when they fought, Luffy covered Katakuri's mouth with his hat! The two of them were so cool!! If I came across a naked Oda-san sleeping on the side of the road, I would cover your "proof of manhood" with a hat!! -P.N. Neon
O: It has happened... I'm there occasionally, a naked old Oda-san sleeping on the side of the road. Thank you. But can you really hide it? CAN you hide my "proof of manhood" with a hat!? (It's enough. It's taken care of.)
D: Sensei just answered an erotic question, so doesn't it make your wife angry? -P.N. Pigyaa
O: My wife laughs at anything, so it's okay! Thank you for your concern over my home life!! Furthermore, that the SBS is like that isn't my fault!!
D: In chapter 847, Perospero calls Nami "Candy-chan" when she's soaked in candy rain. Did he lick her after that? He shouldn't notice that and intend to do nothing! Please draw Nami being licked by Perospero! I'm begging you! -P.N. Girl who aims to be a writer
O: Sure. WHO WOULD DRAW THAT!? I thought it was a postcard from a middle-aged pervert, but... it's a young girl!! Aren't you being indecent!? The SBS is a refined place for a healthy author and healthy boys and girls. Why do you taint it!?
D: Oda-Oda-Oda-chi! I thought of something cool!! Blowfish are really yummy but poisonous, right? But if you have Reiju suck out the poison every time after you eat it, it's delicious and you get Reiju… (Mufufu) It's two birds with one stone, right!? -P.N. A too pure 25-year-old
O: I see~! Well. first you need to get poisoned by a blowfish, then you'll need Reiju, BUT SHE CAN'T COME!!! YOU PERVERTED BASTARD!! (*Eating blowfish at a restaurant is safe.)
D: "Pirates", "40 years ago", and "Garp" were used to talk about Shakky before. Is there some relationship between Shakky andRocks? -P.N. WE Part-timer
O: Uh...!! That was 30 years ago and from before volume 40! Why do you remember that? I... I don't know a thing! Uh... Fwe... Fwee~ Fwee~ [whistling noises]
D: Oda-chi! You showed us Luffy and Ace at 40 and 60 years old, so show us Sabo at 40 and 60 years old pretty please. -P.N. Big Brother's Oda mania
O: Well, I drew it, but even I don't know what the real future will be...
A Future where things went wrong
O: Ah, here's this time's "Who's this!? How old are they!?" of the Big Mom Pirates questions from "P.N. Matcha Man-kun", "P.N. Atsugon-kun", and "P.N. Momoinu [Pink Dog]-san" all gathered together and answered. They are mainly from chapters 848, 854, and 864.
D: Oda-san, hello! I've got a quick question. Charlotte Mont-d'Or and Charlotte Opera. Those two have been in the story, but the names of their Devil Fruits haven't been revealed in the story. Could you please tell us what they're called? -P.N. Boil
O: Sure. Mont-d'Or's is theBuku Buku no Mi, so he's a Book Man. He can hold living things as live specimens in his books, fly through the sky on books, drag people into a book's story, even appear as the boss of one series, so he has a varied power that can make things sufficiently interesting. Opera's is theKuri Kuri no Mi, making him a Cream Man. He can control the cream that comes out of his body, the sweetness carried in his new attack concepts makes him a troublesome enemy.
D: A question for the SBS! What are the hobbies of Smoker-san, Tashigi-chan, and Lady Hina? -P.N. Escape Horse
O: I see.
D: I love Crocodile, Mihawk, and Doflamingo. Will these three not have kids and remain single forever? If they had kids, what would they be like? -P.N. Purple Panda
O: The marriage experience, huh. I don't know if there'd be kids or not, but anyways, please enjoy what I guess they would be like. And that's all for the SBS until the next volume!
The following extra birthdays were revealed with SBS 90:
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 91.

D: Flowchart of this SBS1. Odacchi will start the SBS (as usual (LOL))
2. Questions will be asked -> Odacchi will get mad
3. Questions will be asked -> Odacchi will look stupid
4. SBS will end (with some weird and entertaining comedy sketch)
P.N. SBS will now begin
O: Oi Oi! SBS is not that kind of perfectly scheduled event! Besides, you were wrong from the very start. This time I will perfectly and neatly begi...the SBS has already started!! You started it with your Pen Name!!
D: I will give you a Kibi Dango that came off of my thigh so please let me start this SBS. P.N. Match and Taxi
O: Shut up!!!
D: In Ch. 825, Chopper happily ate the Cotton Candy Snow that fell from the Candy Cloud. If erotic books fell from the sky, what would Odacchi do? Yeah. P.N. Recklessly
O: Yaaay!! Opens wide <3 Chew, chew, che…Wha..!! I messed up!! If I eat it then I can’t read it!! Aaaaaaaa
D: When Luffy and Usopp see robots their eyes sparkle. When it comes to the super cool Law, what sort of reaction would he have? P.N. Not sure what this is P.N. Mika ni Baami
O: Like this. I mean, just imagine it. If a robot appeared before his eyes, of course they would become like this!!
D: Why is Karoo staring so intently at Leo!? Is it because he is a pirate?? P.N. Ehara Ryota
O: Ah in the Levely chapter (906) right. This is just simple jealousy because Vivi said "Cute" when she saw Leo.
D: Oda-san, thanks for all the hard work. In Chapter 907, the Marine Woman who called Vice-admiral Garp “Garp-chan” was Momousagi introduced in the Volume 74 SBS right? Also the Marine who called Momousagi “Onee-chan” was the one introduced in Volume 75 Chaton right? P.N. Brook’s younger brother
O: Yep, you got it! Both of them were hidden characters that would be coming out in the film [GOLD] so I absolutely had to finish their designs.

D: Odacchi!! In Ch. 907, Hina calls Vice Admiral Garp, “Garp-kun” but isn’t she only a Rear Admiral!? How can she call use “-kun” for someone not only so much her senior but also a higher rank?? P.N. Best Horse
O: She did say that didn’t she. It’s not like Hina uses “-kun” for all the important people she knows. It’s because Garp himself is constantly interacting with people who care a lot about rank. When he sees the cheeky attitude of Hina, he feels like they are kindred spirits in that way.
D: Daifuku can unleash a genie from his stomach so I was thinking, when he rubs his belly so much, does he ever just let out a giant fart instead? P.N. Fart noise
O: Yes
D: I’m curious about the Devil Fruit ability of Galette that let her immobilize Nami. The Charlotte family sure has a ton of ability users. P.N. Oda Mania
O: Galette ate the “Bata Bata no Mi” and became a Butter Human. She can manipulate butter so the answer is with butter. There definitely are a lot of Devil Fruit users but if I took the time to explain each and every one the story wouldn’t be able to move forward. For the ones that I didn’t have time to draw, please just continue to read on! For the few that still want to know, that’s what the SBS and ONE PIECE Field Guides are for!!
D: All the characters of “Four Emperors Officers” class have very high bounties. Do their bounties ever go up simply for the reason that they are the Officer of XX? P.N. Rice LOVE
O: Yes yes, that totally happens. After the Dressrosa incident, all the people involved with the Straw Hat Crew got a flat 50 million increase. The crew members’ bounties often increase with their captain. This is because it is actually fairly difficult to appraise the strength of each individual person and assign a money value to them.
D: Hello! Oda-sensei! Please tell us the hobbies, favourite food, and disliked food for each of the four Revolutionary Army Commanders! PN. Tattsu
O: Karasu
Lindberg
Betty
Morley
D: Oda-sensei, I need to tell you about the world’s biggest mystery (Preface)… What kind of chin is Iva-chan’s chin? I’m so interested, I’m so interested, I’m so interested. P.N. Chiba Peanuts
O: I understand. You’re interested about three times huh. That is a [Fried Squid]. [Fried Squid Chin]! (Appropriate)
D: The theme songs that play in the Tokyo One Piece Tower, [4ever Don!!!!!] and [PHANTOM ~ Promise ~] by GReeeeN, were compiled into an album named [Roots of D]. Roots of D (emoji). Is GReeeeN inheriting the Will of D okay? It is right? IT IS RIGHT? P.N. Toppi Grand Fleet Captain Ota-kun
O: Ah you’re talking about the Tokyo One Piece Tower “Show” Theme Song. And you’re asking about the D in that album name!! In fact I heard from the person who wrote it, Hide-san from GReeeeN about what the D in [Roots of D] is supposed to mean…it is The Will of D!!! Wow Wow Clap Clap. He was pretty carefree about the whole thing, but that’s basically what he said (LOL). It’s a great album so please listen to it! If you get the chance to see it, the Tokyo One Piece Tower Show is on every day so go visit that as well! [PHANTOM] was directed by me as well. It’s pretty great!
D: Brûlée-san is a wonderful lady, I love her and would love to take her out on a date. Is there a possibility of me dating or marrying a member of the Charlotte family….? P.N. Sakura Tree
O: I understand. It’s the Moe that comes with being an Imouto right!! Don’t go eloping on us!!
D: In the beginning, everyone who was drinking alcohol drank it from a glass that looked like a Beer Mug. Somewhere down the line, it transformed into something looking like a little barrel instead. When did you make this change? Why did you make this change? Please tell us! Ei-chan (flower) P.N. Shoe Coco
O: Very sharp. Isn’t a barrel more pirate-like!? Well that’s the official story anyway…. The law in Japan says you can’t drink alcohol if you’re under 20 years old so its better if you can’t see what anybody is drinking (LOL). However, I do think the barrel is cooler than the beer mug anyway!!
D: I want to see the future of Zoro at age 40 and 60 as well! From Captain Nobuo
O: If he lives on without any major problems, I think it would be something like this
A future where “something” happens
D: Good evening Oda-sensei! Luffy often says [Kaizoku Ou ni, ore wa naru!] (I’ll be the pirate king) but why doesn’t he ever say [Ore wa, kaizoku ou ni naru!]? Is there any special meaning behind the way he says it? P.N. Hyoniki
O: What a laugh! This question is finally asked after 90 volumes! Somebody has finally caught on. The truth is, about 20 years ago when the ONE PIECE anime was first starting, the man I now call “The Father of ONE PIECE”, Toei Animation’s Producer Shimizu-san, asked me the same question. Because I had such a strong obsession when it comes to this phrase, Shimizu-san was assured that ONE PIECE would be a success!! That strong obsession was…!! To be continued (it won’t be continued). Well…in summary it is just a “strong phrase”. Although the grammar of [Ore wa kaizoku ou ni naru!] is better, I thought that Luffy wouldn’t be able to tell the difference anyway! Basically the answer is we went with the flow!
D: Heso! I have a question. I just finished reading through [ROMANCE DAWN] and I was wondering isn’t the pirate that was waiting for Zeff’s cooking at Baratie in Ch. 902 the same pirate, “Crescent Moon Galley” that appeared in Romance Dawn? P.N. Takataka
O: Well spotted, very knowledgeable. You’re right! This is pirate named Crescent Moon Galley who appeared in the ONE PIECE prototype anthology (ONE PIECE RED collection). Congratulations, very impressive!
D: Odacchi, I have a serious question. The name of the castle shown at Mary Geoise, “Pangaea Castle”, was it possibly named after the ancient continent where all the other continents were pieced together like a giant puzzle. In other words, isn’t that where ONE PIECE is? I think the fact that Pangaea castle is located in the centre of the world is consistent with this. P.N. Shock Ninja from Somewhere
O: Pangaea Supercontinent. The giant continent from long ago formed from the fusion of all the continents. I definitely borrowed the name, as for the meaning…? I won’t tell. Lol.
D: Oda-sensei, I have a question. When I was in 6th grade, I went through special training to be able to perform Shigan and stab through someone with one finger. I wanted the power to stab my meddling friends back then but now my only power is to say to them “Wow your nails sure are long…” I wanted to know how many years of training you need in order to perform Shigan? P.N. Itokouzu
O: I think it's best if you don’t stab your friends.
D: What is Morley-san’s power? In Chapter 538, Iva-sama said that Newkama Land was created by a “Tunnel Digging Ability User”. Does Morley-san have anything to do with this? Since giants have such long lifespans, could it be that Morley-san made it a long time ago? P.N. Salami Meat
O: Yes, exactly right. First off, Morley’s ability is the “Oshi Oshi no Mi”. He has the power to break apart and push away various objects, be submerged underground, and create space there. He (she) is currently 160 years old, but he used to be an extremely evil pirate who was captured more than 100 years ago where he created “that” place within Impel Down. Aside from being an ability user, he managed to break out of prison without people noticing but then he got involved in a certain “incident”. Him joining the revolutionary army is actually a fairly recent event. Iva-san made use of the space that was created but he/she was the one that created the atmosphere. Although Morley was the one that made the space, Newkama Land was undoubtedly created by Iva-san. In the end, Iva-san still doesn’t know that the tunnel digging ability user is Morley.
D: Oda-san!! I heard that you aren’t able to buy adult magazines at the convenience store!! Does this mean I also can’t buy ONE PIECE there? P.N. Captain Nobuo
O: Listen, listen!! Remember this well!! ONE PIECE is…!! A SHONEN MANGA!!!! And with that, the SBS is over!! Until next volume!!
The following extra birthdays were revealed with SBS 91:
Translated bycalmdownrelax.
Translations may have been modified since the original versions.
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 92.
O:Ah, the radio show is starting!
Radio: ...Coming from Tokyo, a request by Oda Eiichiro-kun! The upcoming song, the SBS, is abo...bobo...bout to...bebebeginn!!!!! P.N. Nakahara-ji
O:It started from the radio!!!?
D: It might be too quick to ask, but why have you been using the sound effects [Beben] and [Ben] inWano Countryso far? P.N. Bebebe-n
O:Yes you're right. Up until now, it was always [Don] or [Dodon]. I have been using [Ben!] because its the sound that an instrument called a biwa (Japanese lute) makes. However, I've been drawing a shamisen being played instead. So when we get to this scene in the anime, I'm hoping they can put on a good production with the sound mixing team. I'm counting on you, Toei Animation!!
D: I have a question, Odacchi. The women you draw almost always have a large bust. When they're in Wano, they all wear kimonos and I've noticed that their busts get hidden away. I'm curious. Is it really okay even if Japanese women don't have big busts??? P.N. Chii-chan
O:Yes, this topic. Before, when I didn't know much about kimonos, I drew chests with their normal emphasis. However, I received a lot of letters from fans who were kimono pros telling me women with large busts would purposefully find ways to hide them to emphasize the beauty of their silhouette as well as teaching me tips on how they do this. Well in the end, the way anybody wears their clothes is up to them but I was convinced that the beauty of kimono lies in the silhouette (body line) so that's what I've been emphasizing in my drawing! If they took them off, it would be incredible!!
D: Odacchi-dono! I have a question-de gozaru!! The building that appeared in Wano, it has everything from roundness, distortion, to a feeling of commitment-de gozaru but is that thing above the Sumo Ring a hanging roof?
← Is that roof floating-de gozaru!?? P.N. Director's Nurse
O:Ah yes. It is floating. No, actually, it is flying. It's a kite. In order to show the performance inside the ring, the roof usually hangs from the ceiling. Since Sumo is performed outside in Bakura Town, the roof flies up instead. It looks heavy but it's actually very light. To explain that it was a kite would have taken too much time in the story so if you want, you can think of it as a balloon instead!
D: Odacchi!! I noticed something. InVolume 91,Ch. 916, Pg. 116 whenLuffydefeated "Yokozuna"Urashimathere was a flag that read [猛岩斧関] (Fierce Boulder Axe Gate). Back inVolume 1,Ch. 4, there was a character named "Axe-Hand Morgan" right!? Could it be thatMorganwas actually originally from Wano?? I'm right aren't I?? - from Riku-kun
O:Well spotted! Indeed it is related to Morgan. "Indeed"!? This was actually a joke by the background artists of this scene. It was a situation of "Our staff" VS "Readers" (LOL). In Wano, because all the store signs and embellishments are in Japanese, I needed to come up with words to fill them all. It was really hard to come up with what words to tell my artists to write in for each one so I asked them to just hide words related to [ONE PIECE] around the background. In that same panel, you can see [踊雀伍関] (Jumping Sparrow Five Gate), [雹三海関] (Hail Three Sea Gate) and [海四怒関] (Sea Four Angry Gate) written as well. So what do you think these are related to? (LOL). There are probably more words hidden in other panels as well!!
O:I received a difference from P.N.ゆ! Thank you very much! ! The answer is below, so be sure to find it again!
Answers:
O:Well then everyone I've got an announcement to make. At the new year's meeting of Jump, I found out that there was a fellow nakama from theUsopp Gallery Pirates! Starting from March of this year, the series "Ne0;lation" will be serializing in Jump: by Mizuki Yoda, someone who previously submitted of the Usopp Gallery Pirates.
← Right here!Vol. 65's Yodacchi-san from Tokyo

And here's his serialization! →
We got another pro!
The Usopp Gallery Pirates!
It's become a gateway for pros!
But that's not all!!
Just kidding, but still I'm very happy!
It's Mizuki Yoda's Ne0;lation!!
It's a manga about young genius hacker. Please check it out and support it. Best of luck!
D: Hello Oda-sensei!! It's my first time contributing to SBS!!Zorois in possession of the three swordsWado Ichimonji,Sandai Kitetsu, andShusui. If the power of these three took the form of people, what would they look like? (In other words, can you do a personification of them!!) P.N. Katsuki
O:Got it.
Left:Wado IchimonjiMiddle:Sandai KitetsuRight:Shusui
→
Its done. The personification was a success.

D: Back on Zou, whenMomonosukementioned that he metRoger, I thought that for some reason or another, this was an adult that became a child and was using his position as a child to get spoiled byNami-san andRobin-chan. Now that we know that Momonosuke is someone who leaped through time and whose actual age is still 8 years old, doesn't that mean he is just a normal Perverted Kid!? P.N. Taku Miso
O:Think about it. Remember what it was like when you were an 8 year old boy. That's right, you were a pervert. All young boys are perverted!!
D: I have a wholesome question! I figured out why men want to become Nami's slave. It's because she has two huge "Kibi Dangos" right? P.N. Sanada-chi
O:Get out of my room, Sanada.
D: InCh. 909, was the carpenter boss that appeared in Wano the same one that was introduced in theVol. 7's SBS, the carpenter Minatomo-san? P.N. Yacchi
O: Yes he is!! Back then, he was fixing the broken door to the bar inFoosha Village. He was introduced as Carpenter Minatomo-san, exclaiming "Who did this!?". And now, he somehow ended up in the New World in the closed bordered country of Wano! Isn't that weird!? That's right, they actually aren't the same person! They have the same last name because they're related by blood. The fact of the matter is, a ship from Wano reachedEast Bluea few decades ago.
One of the descendants of someone on that ship is a person that everybody is familiar with...
This part might be featured later in the main story so I won't mention any more than that. It isn't going to be a major plot line, it will just be a minor story.
D: Oda-sensei!! Please tell us the favorite and least favorite foods of the seven commanders of theStraw Hat Grand Fleet!! P.N. Rabbit Princess
O:Coming right up.
D: Now that Shiryu has obtained the Suke Suke powers, will he also try and peep in women's baths? P.N. Apu
O:He is still a man. So of course he will!!
D: "It's got nothing to do with me". Since Oda-sensei's so young, I was wondering if you had heard of "Kogarashi Monjirou". Honestly, seeing Luffy chewing on a long toothpick like that, I had to know. Sorry if I'm wrong P.N. Heromichi "Captain" Kikk (57 years old)
O:A letter from 57-years old reader. You've correct! Kogarashi Monjirou is an old movie based on a novel where the protagonist is always chewing on a toothpick. He even used it as a blowgun, it was so cool. It's very dangerous thouth, so please don't try this at home! Oh, and on the topic of classic novels, the character dozingKyoshirois based on a novel called Slepping Kyoshiro.
D: Odacchi, I have a request! I know other readers must have said "I want to see what Nami and Robin look like in the future" but DEFFFFFFFFINITELY do not draw them please! PLEASE!!! P.N. 420 Land
O:Eh...You're not convincing anyone there huh....
A future where "something" happens
Yes, I finished drawing Nami! Robin will have to wait for the next request to come in.
D: Oda-sensei, I have a question!! Since coming to Wano, Sanji's goatee has been missing the line that leads up to his mouth. I was thinking, could this be his way of expressing his separation from his father Judge? P.N. Yubara
O:
Ah! You're right! I completely forgot about it! No, he just shaved it off! That damn Sanji! I'll definitely draw it in this time! No, I'm pretty sure Sanji is going to return to his old look! Ah! Time's up!! SBS will return in the next volume!
Translations may have been modified since the original versions.
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 93.
Nami:You hasn't even started the SBS, have you?!!
O:↑EEEEEEEEEEHHHHHH?It starts off with me getting slappedddddd?!! It hurts thoughhhhhhhh....!! ;_;
D: Can you show us the "HA!!?" face ofSanji,Nami,ChopperandBrook... 3, 2, 1, Go please!! - P. N. Hayato Nokou
O:Okay!!
D: Oda sensei! InWano Kuni,Hawkinsis riding on a really cool animal. What the name of that animal? Is it only available in Wano? - P. N. Shian
O:Yeah,Komashika,KomachiyotheKomainu,Komadane,Komatoriare unique to Wano. The thing they have in common is the flame-like fur. There are a lot more different types of these animals, but I'm not sure if they will get a chance to appear in the story.
D: Onvolume 88,chapter 885, page 112 Sanji make the ultimatecream"whipped simsim", but please tell us what simsim means. - P. N. One Piece Girl
O:"Simsim" actually means "sesame" (in arabic). Long ago, in certain places, people believed sesame contained magic and it was mysterious. In "Ali Baba and the Forty Thieves" there is the phrase "Open Sesame". Did you hear it before? It's pronounced افتح يا سمسم in arabic. Sanji put their "taste" and "power" into the cream. Although Sanji was unaware that cream was part ofBig Mom's favorite food "Semla" too. I'm sure the power of simsim Cream awakened Big Mom's old memories and had a big impact on the battle.
D: Oda-sensei, Nice to meet you. Yesteday I had a dream where former Fleet AdmiralSengokuappeared before me in the same color as theBuddha. His snails illuminate one after another like a roulette. If you stop at the white, it means good luck. If it really becomes like that, can I getMarinesrice cake? - P. N. Miss Intercalary Day
O:Your dream is really cute!!I want to play this in a mobile game.
(Snail hair = ball like hair; White Hair = ball like a cockroach)
D: The hidden words in theSBS of the previous volume. Is the remaining 3 "Jango", "Hyouzou" and "Kaidou"? I also found "Gedatsu" on the banner. Also, I found "Pagaya", "Kuroobi" and "Gaimon" in the931thand934thChapters respectively. - P. N. Odamania
O:I asked the staff. Among the identities that can be confirmed are "踊雀伍関" (OdoriJango-zeki), "雹三海関" (HyōzōUmi-zeki), "猛岩斧関" (MōganOno-zeki), "海四怒関" (Marinfōdo-zeki), "下打津関" (Gedatsu-zeki), "氷馬喰関" (Aisubāgu-zeki), "輪八関" (Waipā-zeki). The staff also told me that there was a "判馬具関" (Hanbāgu-zeki) inChapter 917, "めし処羽が屋" (MeshidokoroPagaya)" inChapter 931, and graves for "苦炉尾火" (Kuroobi) and "画井門" (Gaimon) inChapter 934.
Well done to both pirates!! Hahaha.
D: Mixed baths... Geat Oda-sensei, mixed baths... TheFlower Capital's mixed baths public baths have mixed bathing... I'm curious as to how mixed bathing works... can I go there? - P. N. Hayato Nokou
O:You're are being driven by your desires, aren't you!! You pig!! This is culture! Japan still has hot spring baths. Back during the Edo period, mixed baths were very common everywhere in Japan. Wano is inspired by Japan, so I absolutely had to include them... I really couldn't not include them, I swear. My heart was unwilling, but I had to paint it. Whoops, sorry, my nose is bleeding. You got some toilet paper for me?
D: Hello. InChapter 905ofVolume 90, whenBettyandKoalawere talking, Koala had a girl with black hair on the left side. The girl also had a mechanical arm. What is her name? Please tell me! - P. N. Emerald Rabbit
O:Aaaah... There are 5 Commanders in theRevolutionary Army, of theEast,West,North,SouthandG (Grand Line)armies.Ivankovis the Commander of G army, andInazumais his assistant, the deputy commander. This girl isAhiru, the deputy commander of the East army and the assistant of Belo Betty.
D: Hey, about the clouds in Wano Country... ah! Isn't the shape of those farts different from the way Oda usually draws farts - P. N. King that really loves Cora-san
O:You again? Why do you keep thinking that what's drawn in the sky is my farts?IT'S CLOUDS!! THEY'RE CLOUDS FLOATING IN THE SKY!!As you can imagine Wano Country has a different atmosphere! Because it is Wano Country, I felt it'd be appropriate to make it look like old that Ukiyo-e screens, in other words I'm just doing different farts from usual. Prrrrtt~!
D: WhenKaidouturned into a dragon, did he like float in the air? - P. N. I am came the crane from that time
O:I've heard dragons fly by grabbing onto clouds and carrying themselves through the air. So because of that, Kaidou generates clouds and flies across skies with them.
D: Thinking back about O-Tama's house, there's this tanuki that looks like a bunbuku kettle, but I like to think he wasn't domesticated with her power. I don't think it's tamed with O-Tama's ability. If you're ever in need about wild ideas for your beautiful chapters, how about I help you out? - P. N. Ehara Ryouta
O:So you've noticed? The fellow existence I mean. In reality, it kettle that ate theInu Inu no Mi, Model: Tanuki. Since it was a kettle precious toHitetsu, even now that it gotten these powers, both Hitetsu and Tama are still emotionally attached. Also it will feel hot if you put it on fire, so it is a pet that can’t be used to boil water anymore. But, one more thing, I was hoping someone would notice it, but no one mentioned it. So I will announce it right here!! If you look carefully, Mr.Bunbukuis actually...SITTING ON ITS OWN BALLS!! LMAOI can't believe no one ever noticed it!! I laugh as I drew it alone!!
D: Please tell us the name of the massive "naginata"Whitebeardcarried. Also, could it be that it's part of those fabled Saijo Owazamono? - P. N. Mizumoto
O:It's name is "Murakumogiri(Cloud Cutter)", it's aSupreme Grade Blade/Sword.
D: Does Nami's Happiness Punch still price at100,000? Or could it be that with her body maturing the price went up? - P. N. Sanadacchi
O:Of course it did. Nami didn't do it willingly this time, but this scene is Alabasta's memories. Please think of it as if she'd charge300,000 now.
D: I watchedfilm Goldthat I've recorded, and I saw thatSakazukitellLucci"You've become more erotic". What does he mean by "erotic"? - P. N. Min Domu
O:Day after day, people will become more erotic and our dear Rob Lucci-san is no different. In that scene, it seems Sakazuki had been Rob Lucci appearing rather erotically on a magazine, so he asked him "can you lend me an issue?". I always thought that was a powerful scene...HE SAID "HEROIC"!!! "YOU'VE BECOME MUCH MORE HEROIC" IS WHAT HE MEANT!!!
"The question is, how will we remain in contact? I have heard that in foreign lands, they use a kind of 'snail'..."
D: I want to ask something Oda-san. When we were inZou,Kin'emondidn't seem to know about theDen Den Mushi or snail transponders. But when we came to Wano Kuni we saw similar type of snails only smaller in size. Did new communication methods got discovered in Wano kuni in those the 20 years? - P. N. Top Ship Captain Ota-kun
O:That's right. AsUsoppexplain inChapter 934, this is a telepathic-wave-sending "Tanishi" which is used to communicate in Wano. It became popular during the 20 years when Kin'emon and the others were absent. Now it has become a common communication method in the Wano Country. There is also a "Light Scroll Tanishi" similar to "Video Den Den Mushi". But there seems to be a downside, that is, the wavelengths is slightly weaker than the normal snail transponders...
All right! Time up!! SBS next volume!! There is a notice of the movie STAMPEDE behind!!
Translated byNoxdRazand EtenBob.
Translations may have been modified since the original versions.
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 94.
D: SBS is starting! P.N. Normal is the best
O:Whoa!! Normal!! So normal!!It really caught me off guard
D: Odacchi! Don't be afraid to put in more breast bands! P.N. Takataka
O:Eh~! It will be back! Wahahahahaha!! Stop joking around! Wahahahahaha! Wahahahahahahaha…Huh? The sound of police sirens…
D: Oda sensei, I have an important report for you. On page 23 ofVolume 87,SanjikickedBig Mom, right? What happened to the Sanji that would never hit a woman? P.N. Momotaro Hunter
O:Okay. I received a couple other letters regarding this, but that's not what happened! Big Mom attempted to punchReiju, soLuffyand Sanji stopped her. That's what happened here in this scene. However, can they stopped Big Mom's punch by merely catching it?! It's impossible!! So in order to cancel out the power of her punch, he blocked it with his kick!! Which means he's just protecting themselves, it's not a violent action toward a woman!! Sanji's policy still stands!!
D: I would just like to tell something out to Sanji-san. Stealth doesn't matter if it's already a mixed bath!! P.N. Toshiy
Sanji:Toshiy-chan, while in mixed baths, there is no reason to look at a lady's naked body. However, if I become invisible...
O:STOP IT, YOU'VE SAID ENOUGH, SANJI!!Young readers, please know that voyeurism is a crime!! Back to the SBS!
D: The names for all admirals follow the format of "color + animal", right? So I thought there's a organization in the Marine Headquarter, where they'll discuss and decide the names for each admiral. Could it be that the head of that organization is Vice AdmiralNazu Ketagari, who has a hobby of doing fortune telling based on names? That must be it, right...?! P.N. Iroha
O:O... OF COURSE!!You're very knowledgeable. And not just the admirals, he named every member of the Marine who has a epithet!!
D:Chapter 943...IT'S SO TOUCHING!!! (BENG!!)Izou?! The commander of the 16th division ofWhitebeard Pirates, Izou, was one of theNine Red Scabbards? Ahhh... WasKouzuki Odenthe commander of the 16th division?! P.N. 420 Land
O:Oh... You guys noticed another small detail. YoungKin'emonand the others in the flashback scene, if you count them no doubt there're 9 people, but what is this? Thought it wasO-Kiku... but the person feels a little different... By the way, Izou is one of the commanders that appeared in theSummit War arc. It's true that they look similar since Izou also wore a kimono. And involume 82chapter 820, it did said that some people fromWano CountryjoinedWhitebeard's ship~. One day the answer to this question will be revealed, so just continue reading. You'll notice it, right~!
Left:O-Tsuru,Right:Vice Admiral Tsuru
D: Is it a coincidence that Kin'emon's wife,O-Tsuru, andTsurufrom the Marines share the same name? P.N. Lulu
O:Oh you're right—. They have the same name—.
However, do you guys know about "NANA", that Shojo manga? In that manga, the two main female protagonists are both named "Nana"! They have the same name!! Even though it's a famous manga!! So, it's not really a bad thing, is it?
So if one day they met each other, then they conversation would go like this:
"I'm also called Tsuru, Tsuru-chan."
D: Let us seeUsoppat 40 and 60 age!! P.N. Macchi and Takeshi
O:Here it is!
A future where "something" happens

D: Oda, I want to help others, so I want to work as a worker in the bathhouse. However, there are only two arms, so the help is limited to women. PN: Sanadacchi
O:He's back again, that pervert Sanada!! No way. If you worked in a mixed bath, then you would have one future, behind bars!! However, to talk about the history of "three aids", this may turn into a long story, and those who are interested can investigate it by themselves. However, in the Edo period, it was true that male handymen were engaged in washing the body for guests in the mixed bathhouse. A pervert like Sanada would never be fit for this job! Stop it!!
D: I want to see more of the mixed-bathing scene-degozaru. Sanada-san wanted me to tell you. PN: Matches and Takeshi
O:SANADA, YOU BASTARD!!
D: Sanada-san said he wanted to be stepped on byKomurasaki. P.N. Macchi and Takeshi
O:SANADA!! STOP CORRUPTING THE PUBLIC MORALS OF THE SBS!!
D: The tree on top ofShutenmaru's head is modelled after the Rakugo [Head Mountain] right? In Oda-sensei's case, where would your tree sprout from? P.N. Kinbo
O:That's correct! The Rakugo [Head Mountain] program is a strange story where Sakura trees sprout from the head of humans. They explain that as the reason for why people like to gather around for flower watching. It's quite the surreal story. Eh, in my case, if you ask where my tree would sprout from the answer is obvious. My anus!! Let's see everybody come for flower watching!! Hm? I can hear police sirens….
D: Oda-san! I have a question!! On Page 67 ofVolume 90, the girl who collapsed ontoBelo Bettywas wearing a skirt that looked very similar to Moda from the cover story ofChapter 278(Ace's Great Blackbeard Search). Is that girlModa? P.N. Kyarin
O:Yes. Absolutely correct. Well spotted. When Ace was there, theLulusia Kingdomwas still a peaceful place. However, the current king, King Seki, is a cruel leader and so his people suffer under his rule. After theRevolutionary Armybestowed courage upon the people, Moda and everybody else are continuing to do their best.
D: I have a question about illustration requests. InVolume 56, all of the requests were some variation of "Strawhat + Animal" but you must have gotten some requests without animals or the Strawhats right? How do you currently decide which requests to draw?
O:Theres no formal application process. I often forget to do this but thank you all so much for all your illustration requests. The format of "Animal + 1 character doing XX" is a pretty basic one. It's always good to have a lot of Strawhats. When I first started, I thought to myself I would try to reply to as many requests as I could! At least that's what I thought. I wanted to fulfill 1 request per person but eventually I started to think about how many skilled artists are out there and realized: "I want to draw this, but I wonder if its already been drawn before". Eventually I decided that I would instead draw what I wanted to draw most. These requests about animals and characters always made me feel that I wanted to see it drawn so I would be able to fulfill these requests happily. Art is still my hobby after all. Even for the two-page colour spreads I always think to myself, "I want to draw this!" before it manages to get drawn. These often feature animals too. I've already been doing this for 22 years after all so most of the usual illustration ideas have been done. When I see a new and fresh request, it makes it fun for me to draw as well.
D: I really want to seeGryphon's anthropomorphized version, the sword thatShankspossesses. I think it would be a really cool person, what do you think? P.N. Straw Red Hair
O:You want to see Shanks' sword "Gryphon", right! I'm very good at anthropomorphism! So just leave it to me!! Here you go!!
D: In thechapter 931"Soba Mask", Usopp andFrankyask to be allowed to name Sanji's suit. I'm very curious what name you would give each of the Straw Hats. And... If you could tell me what they're going to call it, that would be great. from S.Masae
O:Understand. Then let them take a name!
If it were you, which one would you choose?
D: When the Reiju sucked out the poison from Luffy, the Straw Hats members put out their tongues and said "thank you for hospitality." The action was so cute, I tried to imitate it, but it would be said to be "more hospitality" or "more hospitality." How can I say "thank you for hospitality"? P.N. Hualin Sugar
O:Well, in fact, I just omitted the scene of licking my lips in "Thank you for hospitality" → "舔 lips", but Hualin Sugar Sauce try to say "more diè hospitality", I hope you continue to work hard! I will definitely be able to say it one day! Just stick out your tongue and say "thank you for hospitality"!!
Left:Man,Right:Woman
D: Do men in Wano Country wear a fundoshi under their kimono? P. N. Slip
O:Of course!! And women wear a kind of feminine loincloth called yumoji. That's how they go in Wano!
D: Oda sensei, do you still read all the postcards and letters yourself? P. N. Suemitsu
O:I read them all! And of course I will read them! And I've never dispose them over the course of 22 years (laugh). Because there're way too many of them, I can't store them in my house, so I borrowed a room, and all the letters that I've finished reading will be sent to that room.
There're so much of them that one day the floor might fall off!
Thank you!! Those letters contain you guys' feelings in them, so I won't throw them away.
D: Odachi! I noticed something!Hyougoro-san has flame-like hair like "Komainu" and "Komashika"... which means he's "Komaningen", that's right!!! P.N. 420 Land
O:AH!Well yes, you are right, well...! Okay, in that case, he's a komaningen.
D: The light that Im's going to extinguish...is it me...?
O:It's not, so please don't worry about it and continue with your life. And I hope everyone else can also lead a happy life!! SBS so far!! See you in the next volume!!!
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 95.
D:AH! UFO!(While Odacchi is looking for it) Ready—andSBS IS STARTING!!P.N. Tomo and Isshou
O:Eh? Where!? UFO!! I want to see it!! I want to see it super badly!! I'll go chase it with my bicycle!! Which way did it go!? Ah I saw it glow! It's spinning around!SBS HAS ALREADY STARTED!!?
D: Odacchi I have a question! Is the teacher who could extend her neck an ability user? Or is she actually from a special species? P.N. Wanderer Asajiro M
O:There was someone like that wasn't there. You're talking aboutSarahebi-sensei. She's very popular amongst the children who she frequently teaches but she tells them about the terrible things supposedly done by theKouzuki Family, twisting history and filled it with lies. She is an underling ofOrochiandKaidouafter all so she isn't the best teacher. She ate snakeSMILEso her neck is that of a snake.
D: Hello Oda-sensei. I know it's a lot but could you tell us the best flower and animal that represents each of theWorst Generation? P.N. Takusai
O:Coming right up. I don't know very much about flowers so don't look too deeply into my choices in the language of flowers!
D: Hello Oda-sensei. I have something I want to ask you. With Zoro always biting his swords, don't his teeth hurt?. My favourite character is Zoro. from N. Shinya-kun
O:Hello Zoro-loving Shinya-kun! That's so nice of you to say. It's true that his teeth hurt but he still does his best and keeps biting his sword! The reason why is long ago he made the promise to be The World's Greatest tosomeone who diedand the sword that he bites is a keepsake from her. That's why no matter how much his teeth hurt he will keep biting! Until the day he becomes the greatest in the world!! Thank you for your postcard! I eagerly await the next one!
D: InChapter 935, you can see somebody hidden in the bath. The truth is, this was me using my Suiton no Jutsu! P.N. Sanadacchi
O:It was you!!I wanted to show Shinya-kun a prim and proper SBS but you've gone and ruined it!!
D: Whenever there is a chapter with a very moving scene, I notice that the SBS Corner on the next page never has any vulgar content on it. I think there are lots of chapters with scenes that immerse me in a lasting memory so I was wondering is this intentional or just a coincidence? P.N. Hoshito
O:You're right! Whenever there are scenes when characters cry or if there is UG Sanada and his ilk aren't welcome on the SBS after those chapters! I'm very particular about this!
P.S. By the way, I imagined his two swords as a cool onee-san and loli-chan.Yoru Lamenoire and the cross-shaped knifeYoru:"Back off, weaklings! Get out!"Kogatana:"If you can't defeat me, don't even try to challenge my friend!"
D: Oda-sensei! I really want to see the human form ofMihawk's cross sword! Until now all the ones you have drawn were completely uncool! Booooo! So this time please crank the coolness of this human form as much as you possibly can when you draw them! As much as you can! You'll do it for sure!! P.N. Tokaguhi
O:Ahh you're good! I mean the other drawings were fine too. However because you made your explanation so concrete, it made it easy to understand. Ladies are great too! Roger that!!
The human versions are complete!! My drawing doesn't quite have the maturity of a pro but this is the official version!
Black BladeYoruko– I'll cut you partner ♡,Omakeko– Roger, leave it to me!!

D: Oda-sensei, I was just recognized in the Guinness World Records as having the largest collection of One Piece goods at 5656 items!! Hooray!! Buying those goods continuously for 18 years was not a mistake. P.N. Sanadacchi
O:Wow!! Guinness!? Congratulations...!! What!? Sanada!!?I have such mixed feelings about this situation!! This is a lie right!? Is this real?? While searching the internet: It seems that this is real. Also Sanada, you're a Youtuber! Ah, probably best not to go to his channel everyone! It's the Youtube of a perverted man after all. Even still, its nice to know somebody out there loves ONE PIECE this much, even if he is a pervert. This world truly is amazing! All jokes aside, congratulations! Even if you are a pervert. And thank you! Even if you are a pervert.
D: There are three races missing fromTotto Land.Giants,King'srace, and...is it me?P.N. Cola-san loves King
O:Nope.
D: Can you tell us the name of the frog that sits on top ofUsopp's head as well as how they met? P.N. Macchi and Takshi
O: His name isGama Pyonnosuke. Usopp happened to be passing by one day while he was staring down a dangerous snake so he jumped on Usopp's head as a ride away from the situation. Usopp is scared of snakes so he ferociously dashed away. Pyonnosuke realized afterwards that staying with Usopp seemed like a safe option so he just never got off.
D:Revolutionary ArmyEast CommanderBelo Betty's look is so beautiful and I really like her! Is she modeled off ofMariannefrom the painting"Liberty Leading the People"byEugène Delacroix? P.N.Yuito
O:That's right. That famous tour guide-like painting! It was from that image that Betty was born! She sure is popular.
D: Odacchi I have a question!! I know thatDen Den Mushitake on the same appearance as their owner but I want to know more about how they work. There are moments where they look like the person on the other side of the phone and there are even moments where they start off looking like their owner then change to look like the person that the owner is talking to! There are still many mysteries with Den Den Mushi! P.N. Omame
O:Yes. First off! Den Den Mushi have the power of mimicry. It can copy the appearance and distinguishing features of anybody nearby. Second, if someone else is on the other side of the line, the Den Den Mushi can also catch their facial expressions while they talk and can reproduce them. What they choose to reproduce and appear as is entirely dependent on the mood of each individual Den Den Mushi. They aren't machines, they're living creatures so there aren't any hard and fast rules for how they transform.
D: Odacchi, hello! InChapter 929, the people that bought the map of the residence were all beings that appeared in Rakugo right?
This scene was paying homage to the speech "Sashimi is limited to tuna" and "The Senma of Bonin White Eyes" right? I get the impression that Odacchi really likes Rakugo. P.N. Unagi no Taiko
O:Exaaaactly right~! There really are tons of Rakugo references packed all over the place! Only the people in the know can smile when they see them though!
D: Did you ever use those apps that make your face look younger? Well for Odacchi, even if you use it now it would be okay. If my favourite characters Mihawk,Crocodile, andDoflamingoused this app, what kind of baby faces would come out in the photo? P.N. Purple Panda
O:I think I'm okay without the app so I'll pass~. I love new apps though! Yup, that's what they would look like as brats.
D: Odacchi! Why did Kid and Killer not just take a break when they were stuck underwater and couldn't breathe? P.N. 420 Land
O:Certainly! If they could take a break then they wouldn't die in that situation. By the way, it seems that you're a pretty big fan of theKid Pirates!!
D: Odacchi, hello! I have something I'm curious about. Everybody in One Piece says things like "I don't know (Shiranai → Shiranee)" or "I don't need it (iranai → iranee)". Why do you use the Katakana “E” ? Does this carry some kind of personal meaning for you? Please let us know! P.N. Kanamaru
O:This is a simple one! There is a manga out there called "AKIRA". They made an anime movie out of it and even now there are fans all over the world, it's a super famous work. In that manga, they used small letters just like the way I do now. When I was a middle school student, I took heavy influence from this because I thought it was so cool that the characters had a special trait when speaking!
D: Doflamingo kind of gives off the same feeling as Spiderman. Is this just me? P.N. Ebi
O:I understand. However, Spiderman has only recently become popular in Japan, at least that's my impression. The look of Doflamingo's eyes is actually based on a look that was popular when I was in Kindergarten. I found an old picture I drew from those days of "Kamen Rider Super-1" and I think that is probably where I got my inspiration. I love the look of those eyes!!
D: In the flashback inVolume 94Chapter 943, the people of Okobore town are eating SMILEs and saying "What delicious apples!!". Is the deliciousness of these SMILEs different than that of the real Devil Fruits? P.N. Miketora
O:It's been said before that Devil Fruits taste disgusting. Somehow, SMILEs take on the flavour of normal fruits. However, it can also be said that it's because of this that the tragedy of Ebisu Town could occur.
D:I love seeingNamiin a kimono but I'd rather see her without her kimono.P.N. Captain Nobuo
O:I understand! She would say "Oh~my~♡" as you unravel her Obi! This is a common scene in historical plays so I actually wanted to include a scene of this as well. It ended up being too difficult to integrate it in without the story becoming too messy so I sincerely apologize to everyone!! As a mangaka I have the power to bring to life the dreams of my readers and I will continue to polish my skills to that end!!
Ha!! Nononono!! That was something Sanada would say! SBS, that's all our time! See you in next volume!!
Translated bycalmdownrelax.
Translations may have been modified since the original versions.
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 96.
D: Let us begin the SBS! By the way Odacchi, I saw a dirty magazine of hot girls over there (Odacchi runs). Alrighty,THE SBS BEGINS!!!P.N. Yuyucchi
O:Hey, hey...!! Why did you arbitrarily write "Odacchi runs"?! Unthinkable! Huff...huff...pant...pant...wait, there was no magazine!!!
D: Heso! A question!Luffygives nicknames to all sorts of people, however, why doesn't he do so with his crewmates? P.N. Takataka
O:Ah, I see! Well...Luffy's a type of person who, basically, doesn't really care about remembering someone's name, so he'll give people a nickname based on his impression of them whether they like it or not, but with that said, when someone becomes his crewmate, he finally remembers their name. He knows their names, so he calls them by their names. That's really all there is to it.
D: A question: I've heard that the "D." stands for "Debeso", is that true? Pen Name: Count Dino
O:Indeed. It really is true!
Note: "Debeso" means protruding bellybutton in Japanese.
D: Oda-sensei! Did you know that February 22 is "National Oden Day" in Japan? It sort of came to me on the spot, but how about making thatKouzuki Oden's birthday? P.N. Gomu Mera no Mi
O:Hey you...to choose a character's birthday so nonchalantly like that is...PERFECTLY OKAY...!!
D:Namilikes fruit in general, mikan fruits in particular, but given how oranges are similar to them, both being citrus fruits, does she like them as much? But with that said, I wonder if in the end she just has a special emotional attachment to mikan...please tell me! P.N. Emerald Bunny
O:Mmm! Nami's favorite food is related to her upbringing. You can see it in the "Arlong Arc" depicted in Volumes7through10of the physical release, but basically Nami grew up on a mikan farm, so they're a type of food that brings back memories ofher late mother. That's why even among all fruits she loves mikan in particular. By the way, thank you for the postcard...
D: Sanadacchi!! I request you to forfeit your Nami figurine collection to me. P.N. Captain Nobuo
O:Hey, hey, hey!! You there, who are you talking to?!! And more importantly, hold your urges! Just when we were talking about something wholesome, at this point I refuse to ever feature Sanada here again.
D:PLEASE GIVE ME THE USED TOWELS O-NAMI USED AT THE BATHHOUSE!P.N. Sanadacchi
O:GET THE HECK OUT OF MY SBS!! GO HOME SANADA!! POLICE!!
D: Sorry for the weird question but, being the only female among theNine Red Scabbards, doesO-Kiku-san bathe separately on her own?! P.N. Crying Chushiro
O:Not at all, she bathes together with everyone else. Ever since she was a child, she's always been very social.
Left: Shimotsuki Yasuie, Right: Shimotsuki Ryuma, Bottom: Shimotsuki Ushimaru
D: Odacchi!! A question!! Several characters have appeared with the name Shimotsuki, includingShimotsuki Yasuie,Shimotsuki Ryuma,Shimotsuki KouzaburouandShimotsuki Ushimaru, but is there a connection with the place Zoro grew up in that bears that exact name,Shimotsuki Village, and Zoro's teacherKoushirou? So given how Zoro said he was taught the term "Sunacchi" by a geezer in his village and how inVolume 92's SBSyou revealed how some came to the East Blue, it's starting to make sense! P.N. Yu-kun
Vol. 95, Page 31Momonosuke:"Zorojuro, I was told not to say the word "Sunacchi".Zoro:"This geezer in my village use to say it back in the day... So it was something that I just picked up."Momonosuke:"Huh!?"
O:Ah, yes. You might have to follow very closely to picture this, but...let me explain! It all starts with Shimotsuki Kouzaburou (swordsmith and swordsman)
To put it in other words, who Zoro meant by "a geezer in his village" that he met was actually grandpa Shimotsuki Kouzaburou-san himself, who comes from the Wano Country. Oh? Then could that mean...Zoro's lineage...?! Well, the story of Shimotsuki Kouzaburou, the samurai who founded Shimotsuki Village, is all I'm willing to share today!
D: Odacchi!! You modeledShinobu-chan after Jane, didn't you? P.N. World Economy News Paper Part-Timer
O:Ah! You thought so?! Because yes, I thought that as well. In reality, I originally modeled her on the character of the comedianNaomi Watanabe-san, who I've always been amazed by. However, midway into designing her, I realized she looked like the trademark character from my mentor Masaya Tokuhiro's "Jungle King Tar-chan" manga, Jane...and since the whole concept of Shinobu was someone who used to be pretty in her youth, I think that's why I was influenced by her! That's what came to mind as I was designing Shinobu.
D: We knowKawamatsuis not a kappa, but a fish-man, but what type of fish fish-man is he? P.N. Gomu Mera no Mi
O:He's aTiger pufferfishfish-man. However, since he insists on being called a kappa, please do so!
D: Odacchi! I want to see an anthropomorphized version ofBrook's blade, theSoul Solid. Like with Mihawk's blade, a female would be preferable. I feel like Brook would be happy if it were female as well. P.N. Odamania's Brother
O:A female, huh. Understood!
Schwing!! Clank!!

D: Odacchi!!! Who is this young man? Please tell me his name!! P.N. 420Rando
O:Sure. The one who was part of theRoger Pirates, right? There was a massive amount of questions I got regarding the members of the Roger Pirates and while I may only have rough sketches for the most important members of the crew, allow me to showcase them on this page and Page 154!! You don't have to remember these if you don't want to!!
The remaining Roger Pirates are showcased here.
D: Oda-sensei!! Boss Kyoshiro is really cool, isn't he?!! I love him!! I want a figurine of him!! The fact that you made such a character in such a world makes me glad to have been born. Please tell me the Boss's height and favorite food!! P.N. Majo
O:Kyoshiro! You really get it, don't you~? I also feel like I gave it my all in designing him!! I received several questions regarding the Nine Red Scabbards, so you can have everybody's heights and favorite foods. While we're at it, I included Shinobu and Izou as well.
Kouzuki Oden
Denjiro
Nekomamushi
Kin'emon
Kikunojo
Ashura Doji
Kanjuro
Kawamatsu
Shinobu
Raizo
Inuarashi
Izou
Indeed. It seems like everyone likes ingredients that are commonly put in Oden.
D: Oda-sensei, hello!! InVolume 93,Queenthe Plague said "If I get any thinner, I'll steal all your hearts ♬ So I choose the way I am ♬ So I sing the way I dance, that's FUNK!!", but if we're being honest, would he really be that popular with the ladies if that were the case? I would like to see Queen with a thinner form. P.N. Morimoriman
O:Very well. Fat fellows are more charming, wouldn't you say! The SBS ends here! Until next time!!
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 97.

— Let us start... the SBS!— You didn't even try to do it in an original way!
O:↑ Whaaa?! Wait, wait...!! The SBS has started! But that's not the issue!! The one in the header is Nakatsugawa Usopp, the character from the official spin offKoisuru One Piece, isn't it?!! I look forward to reading each new chapter every week!! Through there's no point in having a spin off here with the original!! Get out of here...!!
D: A pleasure to meet you!! I've been reading for many years, so for a kappa enthusiast such as I, the appearance ofKawamatsumade my heart flutter! So I wrote you a letter to request Kawamatsu's birthday to be on June 14th (World Cucumber Day)! P.N. ala
O:Wait, wait... I agree that Kawamatsu is really cool character, I get how you feel, but... for a reader to choose character's birthday so nonchalantly inPERFECTLY OKAY...!!
Note: It is believed that kappa were great cucumber lovers and are closely related to them, so in fact some even celebrate kappa day on World Cucumber Day
D: Is it okay if I make my birthday October 11th? P.N. Himawari Store
O:PERFECTLY OKAY...!!
D: Our staff enjoyed eating that fried shrimp onKyoshiro's head. P.N. Taka Taka
O:Oh... you had me worried for a second there!
"Man, we look so stupid now!!"
D: The guy who said: "Man, we look so stupid now!!" inChapter 972is actually my grandpa. Shurororo P.N. A man who loved Chahan
O:Aaah, is that so...? It's good that he reflects on his errors.
D: One Piece is as hot as oden. Coming at live a directly from a scene. P.N. Miito
O:Beware of sunburns inWano Country!! Why so sunny, Wano Country! (no real meaning to this)
Note: Oda tries to make a play on words with "wano kuni dake ni" which means "because this is Wano Country" to sound like a catchy TV personality, but admits right after that it was awful.
D: Please tell me the names and heights ofOrochi Oniwabanshu's members! P.N. Crying Kyoshiro
O:Sure thing. If this is too much to remember then don't worry about doing so!! By the way, I also threw in their special attacks.
D:Orochihas two really long teeth, doesn't that make it hard to eat? Please ask him for me! P.N. Ami
O:Indeed, let's ask him. Shogun Orochi, how is it?
Orochi:Not a problem at all!Chomp chomp chom--ouch!!See!?
O:Not at all, it seems!
D: Odacchi!! A question. Who has the bigger head, Fukurokuju or Vice AdmiralStrawberry? It makes me anxious and I can't sleep at night P.N. KaiKai
O:About this, it becomes clear if you compare two. Vice Admiral Strawberry wins. It's said that his head grows more every time he gets sad.
"No matter what we go through, I'll never leave your side."Note: his T-shirt has kanji for "Straw"
D: Lately we've seen many swords in their human forms, but I want to seeLuffy'sstraw hatin human form as well! I hope you can deliver! P.N. Akimasa
O:Alright. a new request. This time we will do something that we have not done before. But well, as you all already know, anthropomorphization is my speciality. I even reproduced the scars Buggy left on it!→
D: Oda-sensei!! I have a question. Why is the current Wano Country being deceived about the truth of theKouzuki Family? Thanks toShinobuthe misunderstanding should have been cleared, so...? P.N. Y.U
O:Those who believed in the Kouzuki Family have been persecuted by Orochi andKaidou. Meanwhile, children were educated through deceptive "brainwash education". "Pressure", "brainwashing", these things are causing all sorts of problems even in the present-day world. Frightening, isn't it!
D: A question for Odacchi!! Is it true that you will finishOne Pieceafter five years? Even if it is true, such an official announcement is still hard for fans!! Lots of fans and friends I know were crying when they heard the sudden announcement! How do you intend to take responsibility?!! That's what I'd like to say, but what I think I really want is for Odacchi to finally take a long vacation. P.N. pari_bentham
O:Yes it is. Rather than finishing the whole series, It's that series will end, because the most exciting part of Luffy's adventure, being the story of "What is One Piece?", will come to its conclusion. Things are heating up in Wano Country right now, but if Luffy can set sail from here safely, there will be developments on a global scale, a thrilling story likes of which no one has even read before I'll draw the "Greatest War" in One Piece history. It will be exciting!! In other words, I made such a announcement so readers could be mentally prepared to understand that even a story as long as this one is properly heading towards its end. That said, for now just take your time and enjoy Wano while its hot. I'll be draw  with all my strength!!
D: Oda-sensei, hello!! The other day I ate theMuzu Muzu no Mi, Model: Kokan. It's really itchy. P.N. Emu Delusion
O:Ooookay. Got it. Moving on.
Note: Muzu Muzu no Mi, Model: Kokan translates to "Itchy Itchy Fruit, Model: Crotch".
D: Here is the red-hot iron that you ordered. Stage Name: Kawata Shime
O:Oh, so it's finally here! Winter is no more! Red-hot iron! Grabbing a bite of it seems like a good idea. Here we go!AAAAAAAHHH!!!So hot.
D: Oda-senseiiii!! RegardingPage One's appearance, it was recently discovered in May 2020 that spinosaurs were amphibious swimmers!! Since Odacchi is always so busy, I thought I would tell~♡… w-w-wait, EEEEEH!!!! InChapter 983it was already updated to a tail with finsssss!! Hey, c'mon~! When did you see  those newsssssss!!! P.N. Yuchabin
O:Oh, so you noticed it? Indeed, ever since Page One's first appeared until he returned to story, fossil part of a spinosaurus have been found. Which changed his bone structure!! So I wondered what I should do, but I thought I could sneakily update it without anyone noticing it, lol. Paleontology makes new advances every day!
D: The next member of theStraw Hatis actually me. P.N. Momo Daifuku
O:Wait, really!?Such confidence...!! You're only are 12 after all...
D: Rules are getting harsher all over the world, but I'm very grateful that there's no such thing here. Anyway, can I sniffNami's used towel? Her kunoichi outfit is so small, I worry about her. P.N. Sanadacchi
O:SANADAAAAAA!!Guards, come quick! Why did you let this guy in?! I told you to not let guys like him in here, didn't I?! It's one of the conditions in your contract! Making perverted remarks is an instant kick out!! I'm striving to make this place as pure of content as Hikakin TV!! Get the hell out of here, Sanada!!
D: Odacchi, pleased to meet you!! The introduction of everyone in theTobiroppoinChapter 978was so cool, that I couldn't help but write you! I'm sure many are asking the same question, but please tell us the height, age, and favorite food of all of the Tobiroppo!! P.N. Youki Genia
O:Okay, I understand. They have sure become a fan favorite, the Tobiroppo. I gotta give what the people want. But please show some love forQueentoo!!
D: InVolume 96you introduced all the main members of theRoger Pirates, and one character in particular you called Nozdon, but he had already been introduced inBlue Deepdatebook as Seagull, so now I can only think of him as Seagull... What do I do? P.N. Marine Captain Tobbi Ota-kun
O:Wha.........?! ...ohh~... him? Ahh, heheh.Seagull Guns Nozdon, you mean? Yes, yes. Oh dear... Y...you can call him by whichever name you prefer... or even forget him outright.... It's up to you.
D: CanGifterschange at will between their human and animal forms? Or does it depend on the fruit they eat? P.N. Kenkichi
O:It depends. BecauseSMILEsare man-made Devil Fruits, they're all sorts of unstable. The person who eats a SMILE will definitely gain the strength of a certain creature, but in the end they may have a lion in the abdomen who will always pick fights, or a hippopotamus around their body which will always eat them. These people cannot transform their creature parts at will and have to put up with it. Some SMILE users get really powerful transformations, but it's really a gamble.
D: Oh? Nobody wants to seeSanjiin his 40 and 60 ages? Well, I get to ask now! Please draw howChopperwill look in the future! Please!! P.N. 420-Land
O:You want to see that? Here it is.
A future where "something" happens
O:Alright, the SBS ends here! Until next time!!
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 98.

D: Oda-sensei! Who would've thought there'd be an UFO in a place like this!! The SBS has started. – P.N. A man who has been acknowledged by Higuma
O:What's that—-?!! Hold up, that just seems to be a grade-schooler—-!! I got tricked again!! Dammit—-!! Ah, and by… an 11 year old grade-schooler this time…
D: Oda-sensei, hello! My mom is flatulent all day round, so I was wondering if she's the user of the Koki Koki no Mi. – P.N. Hata
O:No, I think that's just showing her internal organs are all in good health. Alright, next question.
D: Oda-sensei! Hello! According to my grandma,Yamato's birthday is on November 3. Is that so? – P.N. Hata
O:Well then, guess it is November 3.
D: Please drawLaw's face when he eats umeboshi!
O:
Text: "Simplified version"
D: I'm really, reaaaaaally curious to see howKidandKiller's first love,Shiruton Doruyanaika, looks like! I wonder, what kind of face does she have? I bet she's a real cutie! – P.N. Onimaru
O:
"I've stained my shirt on broth!!!"
D: Oda-sensei, hello!! Just recently, I usedConqueror's Hakion my 1-year old little sister, but she just laughed at me. Why is that. – P.N. Yucchi
O:That is because she possesses the qualities to be a king.
D: Odacchiiiii!!! InChapter 977, in the scene afterNamihugsJinbe, I spottedSanjibiting on a handkerchief while going like "GHH–" out of jealousy!! – P.N. Pure-hearted middle-school student who wrote about wanting to meet Odacchi at a Tanabata festival
O:Wow, I'm amazed. Well done on spotting that~ Since it was cut off by the page format, you might have to use your imagination a little. This Sanji is very well hidden. Good job~
D:IFLUFFY'SGEAR FOURIS A THING, THEN WILL GEAR FIVE BE A THING TOO?!– P.N. Y・Sousei-kun
O:Very well. Seeing the passion in your handwriting, I feel obligated to include this question as I received it. Will "Five" be a thing…? Right now, theenemywe have to defeat is the man said to essentially be the world's strongest. Because of that, the world is in the age of transitioning from "4G" to "5G". "G" means "gear", right?
D: InChapter 978, whenUlti-chan starts ending her sentences with "-arinsu",Page Onesays "is this another one of your weird trends?", but then what were her speaking trends before this one like?! – P.N. Yotsuyaeto
O:Right. Ehm… she used to add "gonsu"  at the end of her sentences. A bit before her debut she went like "Pay Pay, oh me poor little thing-gonsuuuu". Right now she seems to like using "arinsu".
O:Hey everyone, so I made a little blunder! I lost the postcard (or was it a letter?) a reader sent me… sorry… But it's fine, because I remember the contents. It was from a fellow called eeyan-kun, who asked me to take a look at his YouTube channel! It seems he does videos where he crafts OP figures! I thought I recognized one of the figures, and I realized it was because he previously submitted to the Usopp Pirates Gallery. It's pretty fun to think some readers have become YouTubers…! So please go give "eeyan" a look. Good luck with the channel…! Ah, I've heard they did a collab with Sanadacchi, but you're better off not watching that.
D: So I was studying about old mixed baths and heard that back in the day, anytime young women would come in, the grannies would protect them because the perverted bastard Odacchi would be approaching. Sheesh, you perverted bastard, always getting into trouble! Anyways, just wanted to let you know I'm changing my residence to a bathhouse. – P.N. Sanadacchi
O:Hey, hold up grannies! You're in the way! I can't get there if you block me! You're stopping me from seeing what I want to see!! This is infringing on my rights, I won't stand for it!! OUCH!! Wait hold on, stop it with the cock and ball torture!! OUCH!! STO… STOP…!! STOP…!!CORRUPTING THE SBS...!! SANADAAAA!!This rascal has appeared again!! Grannies, go cock and ball torture him!! OUCH!! No, not me!! Sanadaaaaa...!! Anyways, yeah. To anyone who has heard about this thinking it was because of perverts, even all the way back in ancient times, people still felt embarrassed about bathing together, so older women made sure the young ones were properly protected, or so goes this story about Japanese culture!
D: TheMarineshaveAdmirals,Vice Admirals, Captains, etc., but while I think the Fleet Admiral is the one at the top, in what order are the others graded? – P.N.[H.U]
O:Now that you mention, I don't think I've explained before how the Marines are structured. Please see here how they are graded~
EXTRA:Sengoku: Sengoku was formerly the Fleet Admiral and is now the "Inspector General".Kuzan(Aokiji): Former Admiral, rumor says Aokiji has been in contact withBlackbeard.X Drake: (Former Rear Admiral)Corazon: (Former Commander)
D: All the officers of theBeasts Piratesare named after card games, right? – P.N. Akibee
O:Yep, indeed. The three All Stars are pretty obvious, but all of theFlying Six, theNumbers, and the Headliners, only excluding Drake,Apoo, andHawkins, are all named after card games, as well as the K (King), Q (Queen), J (Jack), and 1 to 10 cards.
If I were to list them all, I'd be filling this entire page. I hadn't even heard about some of these! I imagined there were many types of games out there, but there really are many ways to play with just playing cards alone. By the way, inDressrosaDoflamingobeing called "Joker" is a remnant of an initial idea where Doflamingo was going to fight as a powerful companion of Kaidou in theWano Country. He's quite the tricky opponent, so I'm glad we got rid of him at Dressrosa!!
D: Hello, member of the SBS Discipline Committee here. I believe that Sanadacchi's behavior is unacceptable. Anyways Odacchi, I wanna eat your kibi dango!! -P.N. Fan of Sanadacchi
O:Aaah… you mean from my cheeks? My beard is not that well trimmed, so it might feel gross, so let's stop. By the way, have you considered changing your pen name?
D: Oda-sensei, I have a question. Those who ateSMILEsgrow horns, right? Then why do Pleasures have one horn and Gifters two horns? – P.N. Hadokku 10
O:So you noticed that, huh. That's just fashion! It's not enforced, but Pleasures are allowed to sport one horn, while Gifters and above are allowed two, or so the rule goes.
D: Please draw the perv-coo- ehm, I mean,Sanjiat ages 40 and 60 in the future please. I'm counting on you. – P.N. Gomu Nara no Mi
O:Very well. I received many requests about this. Enjoy!
Top row:
Bottom row (a future where something happened):
D: Odacchi!! I have a question!! InChapter 962, "Daimyo and Vassals", a youngIzoucan be seen wielding a katana, whileKikuwields a gun, but currently it's the complete opposite! Is there any reasoning behind this? – P.N. Yuu-kun
O:The gun Kiku was holding was just her brother's gun, nothing more to it. I'm surprised you spotted that in such a small panel~. The two of them had a debauched father and were forced by depraved adults to entertain them ever since they were small, but even if they were poor, they were very close to each other. One of the tricks they used to entertain was sharpshooting, which Izou had 10/10 flawless precision in. However, he was never very confident with the sword. As time went by and he ended up onWhitebeard'sship, when he showed off his shooting, "Flower BladesVista" told him "you should use that specialty of yours to protect others!!". What good is a samurai obsessively sticking to a sword if he cannot protect their lord with it? Samurai is a way of life after all. So Izou abandoned the sword and picked up the gun.
D: IfZoro, Nami,Usopp, Sanji, andFrankywere to become ability users, then what kind of fruit do you think they would have eaten? -P.N. 420-land
O:I see, that's quite a fun question~. Hmmm… what I would like to see is…
D: The vassal who taste testedMomonosuke's food inChapter 971and the vassal who reportedOden's foul deeds toSukiyakiinChapter 960are the same person, right? It seems he has been supporting theKouzuki familyfor generations… When I had realized that, tears started flowing out. – P.N. Hikuma
O:Indeed. That's exactly the case. His name is "Banzaburo" (番三郎), he's a samurai that was picked by Sukiyaki in his youth and who is immensely grateful for that.
D: I want to ask you a question -> Leave or Life? – Pen name: Negibouzu
O:THAT'S SCARY!! Eh…?! I don't wanna give up lifespan! I pick leave! I'm leaving! All right, that's all for the SBS! Until next time~!! ZWOOOMM
NewWorld - ArturfromThe Library of Ohara, Volume 98 SBS Question Corner.
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 99.
D: Sensei, congratulations on reaching 1000 chapters of One Piece. This volume will includeChapter 1000within it. So there's only one thing I could say: LET THE SBS BEGIN! – P.N. Goemon
O:Aw man… Thank you so much. 1000 chapters huh, this volume truly contains such a memorable occasio… IT'S ALREADY STARTED?!!
D: Odacchi, do you know how the symbol "π" is read? It's read like "pie"! Then, please read this sentence: O-NAMI'S OPπ ARE THE BEST – P.N. Sanadacchi
O:DAMN YOUUUU!! SANADAAAA!!! Come on man… at a time like this… when I was being congratulated for reaching 1000 chapters!! Furthermore, what's up with this bust of a start to an SBS!! It's become about busty opπ!! Will you ever shut up?!!! Sigh, how I wish thePTAliked me.
D: InSBS Volume 98, you revealedKaidou's devil fruit name, but could you please tell us here the name ofEustass Kid's devil fruit?! – P.N. Takumiso
O:Jiki Jiki no Mi(Magnet Magnet Fruit) Oh…? I didn't mention it before, huh. It allows one to freely manipulate metal with magnetism. I should've mentioned it somewhere within the main story. Next time I'll draw something about it.
D: I have the request of a lifetime. Please letSterrysit on theEmpty Throne. – P.N. Seito
O:No.

D: Odacchi! Heso! Please drawNami'sClima-Tactin anthropomorphized form! Asking in the name of all fans of Nami-san. – P.N. Tsubocchi
O:Sure. Here you go!
D: WhenUsoppwas rescued byKomachiyoand O-Tamahe said "ODEDODADEDADODODODDEBU!" (Chapter 996), but could he perhaps have intended to say "Ore o dareda to omotteru!" ("Who do you think I am?!")? For the moment being though, I'm just glad Nami is safe!! – P.N. Yana
O:Incredible!! Good job on deciphering it, you are correct~~!! Lmao
D: WhenKaidoueats fish, does he eat their skin too? – P.N. Ebi
O:He'd say he thinks the skin is tastier. When at a table with others, usually things go like this: "Hey man… can you skin me this fish" and he'd be like "Of course! Here, I ate its scales for you! WORORORO".
D: Odacchi, good evening. Among the Straw Hats, who cuts someone's hair when it grows too long? – P.N. Pumpkin
O:There's three of them who are pretty good at cutting hair, so whenever someone's in need they'll ask them. The three in question -> Usopp,Sanji, andNico Robin.
D: About O-Toko's mom, or in other wordsYasuie'swife, what type of person was she? Is she still alive? – P.N. Goemon
O:Long ago, Yasuie used to be married without any children, but after he lost his wife he remained single. After losing to Kaidou and surviving, he found a little baby at Ebisu Town. That baby was Toko. O-Toko does not yet know that they are not connected by blood.
D: I want to know how each of theStraw Hat Pirateslike their fried eggs! Do they like them boiled and cut in half, do they like them salty… etc. – P.N. Odamania
O:I see… What a fun question–! Let's find out!
Luffy
Zoro
Nami
Usopp
Sanji
Chopper
Robin
Franky
Brook
Jinbe
D: Jinbe-san!! Congratulations on officially joining the Straw Hat Pirates! I was waiting for you!! Please tell us all the detailed character info for him that was given in the previous SBSes for the other 9 crew members!! – P.N. Yashirai
O:Sure. The letter also included all that I need to answer. It's all the details I've given about Luffy and the others up until now. His favorite foods was already revealed in One Piece'sVivre Card databookare mozuku seaweed in vinegar and fruits.
Beyond those, here's the rest:
Virtue, Virtue, Fist, Water, Wiseness

D: Please anthropomorphize everyone's belovedYamato's sideboob!! – P.N. Yashirai
O:Sure~, anthropomorphization is my specialty~……. AS IF!! An anthropomorphized sideboob he says!! (I still wanted to give it a shot) Honestly, geez… I received a disturbing amount of postcard asking for Yamato's sideboob or his bare breasts! Come on guys, we're almost at volume 100! Stop using your postcards for such depraved requests! Since when have they all been like this?!!
D: Odacchi! Please tell us the age, height, and favorite food of Yamato! – P.N. Pumpkin
O:Sure~ A very straightforward question~ Since you asked, here's the answers:
D: Oda-sensei, hello. Congratulations on reaching 1000 chapters!! By the way, was the color spread of Chapter 1000 made to look the same like the color spread forChapter 100?! When I realized, I had non-stop goosebumps!! – P.N. Kino-san
O:That's exactly right~! Those who have been reading for a long time might've noticed, but those who joined along the way might have not realized. I tried to match them both as a commemoration.
D: InChapter 966,RogerandRayleighsaid as they were holding upMomonosukeandHiyori“I haven't spent time with a baby in ages!!” and “Reminds me of the old days”, but in those old days, whose baby did they spend time with?! It doesn't seem like there's any women aboard Roger's ship so… – P.N. Hakudeiino
O:…eh? They said that? That's just… (sweat) J-just skip that bit!! It's nothing to worry about, nothing to worry about! Fyuu~ Fyuu~ (whistle noise)
D: Odacchi, inChapter 978, there's a Gifter with a giraffe devil fruit yelling “FUNK!” at the Live Floor, who is a different person from bothKakuand the HeadlinerHamlet, so could it be thatSMILEscan produce users of many different types? Particularly, does it matter if there already is a “natural” (assuming they're natural) devil fruit user of that animal? – P.N. Tarou in the Dark
O:Sure. Ehm… SMILEs areArtificial Devil Fruits, so they're completely different things from regularDevil Fruits. To put it roughly:
So in other words, they aren't related to the real devil fruits. That's why Gifters with the same animal exist and why ability users for “Logia”, “Paramecia”, or “Mythical Zoans” cannot appear, since lineage factors can only be extracted from already existing organisms. This isCaesar's limit as a scientist. However, the genius scientistVegapunkmight… or might not have been able to research beyond that boundary.
D: Odacchi! Please tell us why the Kumo Kumo no Mi and Mushi Mushi no Mi are different. – P.N. Ootsukishun
O:“Insect” fruits fall into the Mushi Mushi no Mi category. Spiders aren't insects, so they instead fall into the Kumo Kumo no Mi category.
D: A question for Oda-sensei! Among the designs of the SMILE fruit users, please tell us who are your top 3! – P.N. Tarou
O:I see. Man, the SMILE fruit users sure have some funny designs~! Don't you think they look dumb? It's really hard to pick a favorite…!
Right then, number 3 isSpeed! It's gotta be Umami-chan. When you think of a centaur, you usually think of a muscular beefy guy, so I wanted to make this one a sexy girl, but I felt that wouldn't be possible with horse-like legs, so by making the thighs look more human-like, they made her look more beautiful, though her laughing face is like that of a horse. It's so gap moe.
Number two! The face of how to grow your fruit in a weird way, it's Hamlet!! His giraffe is always trembling and struggling to remain standing, yet despite having become a failure of a living creature, his speech is brimming with a noble prince-like confidence. You just can't help but love him.
And finally, number 1 is…!! With a lion in his belly, it'sHoled'em! It's no exaggeration to say that SMILEs originated from wanting to draw this guy. A long while ago, there was this robot anime calledFuture Robot Daltanious. There a lion robot and a humanoid robot would transform and dock together, becoming a robot with a lion face on its chest!! It's something I also loved as a child because of how cool it was. I always thought "How I wish I was made ofchōgōkinrobot alloy so I could transform just like him~!", so my longing came into form here!! Haha… oh, talking about this I remembered, I also really loved this centaur robot calledDaibajin, so I wonder if that's why I like Umami? Yeah, SMILEs are all like dockable robots!! So cool!!
D: What type of hairstyle would be calledKouzuki Oden's hairdo? Is it "The just perfect fit for the pillow of the Wano-Countrydo"? – P.N. Tarou in the Dark
O:It's a perfect fit for the pillows of the Wano Country indeed! Haha! Japanese culture is really fascinating, did you all know of the times when everyone had tied hair? Since everyone tied their hair on the upper side with topknots and whatnot, they had pillows like these. I remember my granny used one like this.
Anyway, his original concept had a head like this. The top of his head was in the shape of akonnyaku, an egg, and aganmodoki(all ingredients that are usually put in skewers of Oden), but only theganmodokiremained! In other words, it's called anInokori-ganmodoki-doki-doki-doku-toku-mage, or an “Overtime Ganmodoki Heart-throbbing Super-duper Uniquedo”.
D: A question for Odacchi… or rather, a suggestion!! A while ago, you made a "Voice Actors SBS" where people could ask the voice actors questions, right? Then, I think thatKatsuhisa Hōki-san, the voice actor for the newest addition to the Straw Hat Pirates, Jinbe, should also get to do it, what do you think? – P.N. Pitterer
O:Oooh, that sounds nice~. That was a really long time ago lol. FromVol. 52where it started with Luffy's VA Mayumi Tanaka-san toVol. 64, the Straw Hat VA Corps did 9 SBSes total. So, we'll be taking questions for Katsuhisa Hōki-san, voice actor of Jinbeee~!! He's a really cool old dude who's a bit of a dandy just like Jinbe! Ask away!!
Right then, today's SBS ends here!! Next time, it's Vol. 100~!!
NewWorld - ArturfromThe Library of Ohara.
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 100.
D: Oda-sensei! Over there, there is a UFO here with a beauty with giant breasts! Now, let's begin the memorable100TH VOLUME OF SBS!!P.N. One Hundred
O:Ah---!!!! Begin---!!! Wait a minute! Does this not work? This time I have to announce... No good!? Volume 100!? Ugh... uh... about that...! There is no beauty with giant breasts here!!
D: InSBS Volume 99you said you wanted to please the PTA. No matter how hard you try, it's absolutely impossible, so give up and draw an anthropomorphic version ofRobin-can's breasts. P.N. Heart Stay Error
O:DRAW WHAT!!!? DON'T SAY “BREASTS” IN VOLUME 100!!We are not always like this. Well, the next one is a serious postcard!
D: I was curious what the title would be forChapter 1000, and I couldn't sleep at night. I thought it would be a tribute toChapter 100, but it turned out to be a surprise "Luffy Straw Hat", what an illusion. It's much better thanYamato's chest on its side. P.N. Ugh
O:YOU CAN'T DO IT!!Whoa!! Sorry, I lost control!! Oops~ did I accidentally say something? The next person will return this corner back to normal!
D: Lately I'm very worried about the direction of this corner. I will return this corner back to normal!I WANT TO SEE A CLOSE-UP OF O-NAMI!P.N. Sanadacchi
O:SANADA---!!! YOU PERVERT, GET OUT OF HERE!!!What's up with first page!!
D: What wouldUsopplook like if he wore a mask with his nose? – P.N. Hercules
O:There, thanks for the postcard. This is it.
D: Hello Odacchi. BossJinbe's joining is cool. I have a question about the words "please allow me to introduce myself!" inChapter 976. I heard this phrase in the lyrics of the song てなもんや三度笠 (Tenamonya Sandogasa) when I was listening to the best period drama CD. Did you take it from there~!? P.N. Petan
O:Hmm~ You didn't write your age but your interest is very old~ Just like me when I was younger. (laughs) This phrase you can heard in historical dramas and chivalry movies, To be honest, as well as lines that begin with "Hikeenasutte!!". Roughly speaking, it is his greeting from the old yakuza. It's like introducing yourself "Oh, listen to me! My name is ○○, I was born in ○○...". This is called "cutting morality".
D: Hello Odacchi! InVolume 95, page 173, the peron called Yama-san was a big pig considered the god of the mountain, right? AlthoughOdenwanted to cut him in half, he lived. I'm so glad he's alive. Does Wano have amazing medical knowledge? – P.N. very like Sanji's lightning shopkeeper
O:That's right. It's alive. Haven't you heard about it? If an arm or something is cut with a clean cut, then the surface can be put back together! Yes! So Yamagami, because Oden's cut was so clean, he was able to put himself back together!! It is great!! Yamagami's son was called "Koyama".
D: AreUltiandPage Onereally siblings? I know that sometimes, fellow apprentices will call one anothere "Aniki!" and "Anego", but they don't look that alike, so I was curious! I'm very curious about them.♡♡ P.N. Don (20 years old)
O:Yes, they are actual brother and sister. Their father was a pirate, and after he died, his rival Kaidou took them in, or so they've heard. Ulti has always been clever, and she stole two of Kaidou's Devil Fruits, which is how she and Page One got their powers. That gave them the strength to thrive in this "survival of the fittest" pirate crew, and helped them claw their way up to the rank of Tobiroppo.
D: Odacchi, I have a question!! Tell me whyBasil Hawkinshave such eyebrows!! 1. He was born this way. 2. They have been painted. 3. He has thick eyebrows and this is the result of waxing them. 4. He finished with them for a punishment of a game. I love Hawkins' eyebrows!! P.N. Palm Rye
O:Yes. Um. Those eyebrows are one triangle and one hair. So Hawkins has six hairs above his eyes.
D: Oda-san! IsWano Countrybased on the Japanese archipelago? P.N. Captain Shunya
O:Yes, that's right! The prototype was the Japanese archipelago. This was the original idea. There was also Onigashima, based on Hokkaido, but it was moved to its current location for story reasons.
T/N: The names of Wano's regions are homophones with different foods, indicated by the food names in the image.
D: I have a question for Oda-sensei! InVolume 95, on page 33 One Piece, is this person inFlower Capital's Rasetsu TownShinobuwithout makeup? P.N. YAMATORO
O:Oh. You good find! He is actually Shinobu's older brother. His name is "Shinosuke". He loved his sister and knew that she would be hunted down and killed after she left the Onibawanshu group, so he became a deserter as well, thus protecting his sister while acting as a Kouzuki samurai.
D: DoesFrankycheck "I'm not a robot"? P.N. Takataka
O:No, he is a cyborg, so he's not a robot...huh?
D: Oda-sensei! Please tell us about strengh and skill of CP (Cipher Pol)! I think it should be from strongestCP0,CP9, CP8, CP7... to weakest. What do you say? Please tell me! There's nothing I can do about this guy, but please put him in the CPO!→ P.N. The boy who fell in love with Wapol
O:Ignore Rokuo Gan-kun for the time being. Cipher Pol is basically a group of spies. This means that they are people who work in government's shadow. Citizens only know from CP1 to CP8. The higher the number, the more important the missions they are entrusted with, but legendary CP9 has the privilege of eliminating people who get in the way of the government, and is a group of assassins that should not exist. CP0 (Cipher Pol, Group 0) is different, they are directly under the command of the Heavenly Dragons, and because they receive direct orders from them, so they are the strongest.
D: Oda-sensei! I want to marryKatakuri! P.N. Lactic acid bacteria lactic acid bacteria intestinal environment is super normal
O:Your nickname is very long!!! Yes. I see... But Katakuri's height is 509 cm, will that suit you?
D: I always play in kindergarten and use"Tougen Shirataki"and"Kamusari". Will I get stronger? P.N. Taisei
O:Wow!! Bump...... .................................Ha!! Take a minute! Take it easy Haki!?
Dialogue on the right: "What are you doing? Going out! I won't go outside!"Dialogue on the left: I will not go outside!
D: Odacchi, heso! I have a question! DoesKaidou's kanabo have a name!? Also, how cool would that kanabo be if it was anthropomorphized!? P.N. Takase
O:Kita. Good question! Let's see~. What goes first? Oh, kanabo is called “Hassaikai” (A reference to the Eight Commanders of Buddhism). It unranked, but if Kaido dropped her, she'd would be considered a legend. Well, let's go with anthropomorphism!! I think Kaido is much scarier...!!
D: Hello! I like history and I found not only the Edo period, but also the recent Heian and Taisho periods. Which era would you like to go to? P.N. Amagiri Momoka
O:Is it a good pattern to go to the past. You can see samurai!? Oiran too!? I love period dramas!!?? Yes. Buf, if I get cavities there I don't need anesthesia. It is very painful to go to the dentist. If you really want to travel, you better go to the future! Laugh
D: Please draw Robin at 40 and 60 age! P.N. Lifetime costume
O:Eh, should I?
Future:
Future where something happens:
D: I've been reading sincevolume 1, but when you draw your penis Odacchi? P.N. Different dimension pork belly
O:I WILL NEVER BE DRAWN IT!!
D: Doesn'tBlack Maria's ability is similar toSMILEs?? P.N. Ebi
O:I see! Of course, if it's an hybrid form up until now, it shouldn't have two faces, and it's supposed to have spider hands. But in fact, he doesn't have a completely fixed type. You can change the transformation point with a relatively small amount of operation, just like Chopper can control the transformation.
←I think Black Maria couldn't afford turning completely into a spider because isn't pretty, so she must have used some drug and such to change her hybrid form.
D: I've waited 10 years for Jinbe to join the Straw Hat Pirates. I'm a Jinbe's fan, so I made this symbol myself. Please make this symbol Jinbe's symbol! from Joshua.H
O:Whoa!! It's really cool!! I really want to use it as it is!! But flags have to follow a pattern, so let me change it up a bit→  can i arrange it? Joshua invented the symbol and I made it official!!
That's it! This concludes SBS Volume 100! We are still looking for questions for Jinbe's voice actor,KATSUHISA HŌKI-san! Enjoy the ads at the end of this volume!! See you in the next volume~~!!
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 101.
D: Oda-san! Do you knowOden's Huff Huff game? This is a message game that you put oden in and huff huff. Well, what are you saying? "Hafufuhafu fuhafufuhafu" P.N. Kei
O:Huh? It's an interesting game, but understand it at all. The answer is written. Er. Answer "I'm starting SBS"? I see,IT'S ABOUT TO START!!!
D: Hello Oda-san! People tend to think that One Piece has many young fans, but there are many housewives like me who struggle to make dinner every day. Can I make a fan club for housewives?P.N. Hito Natsu
O:Oh, please, please! This is the cushion. Hey. Let him go slowly. This is ØNE PIECE, a manga that welcomes women and members of the PTA with particular courtesy♡
D: Hello Odacchi!! My dream is to be clutched byRobin-san, so Odacchi, could you ask Robin-san to clutch for me?? P.N. Robin-san's favorite girl
O:Hey, hey, hey, girls! Girls! What are you going to do if you're rude! All the housewives are here today, so be quiet! Okay!?
D : Hello Odacchi! Recently, SBS has become rough, so why don't you make a corner like this? Its name is alsoS(sugoku) (extremely)E(ero i) (erotic)S(shitsu mon) (constant)CORNER!P.N. Kanikama
O:Alright!! No Collier!!
D: Odacchi! Let me marryMr. 3! P.N.Ryokuchako
O:Good! Good luck!
"Don't forgive pirates "evil!!!"
D: If I wereAkainu, I would surely say this.DONT'T FORGIVE THE PERVERT NAMED SANADA!!!P.N. Captain Nobuo
O:Oh! You said something nice! That's right!! Don't forgive that pervert! It's okay this time! I can't really put it on. 500 security guards were deployed at the SBS venue. Enjoy peaceful SBS~!!
D: Hello Oda-san. I'm a newcomer to watching One Piece on YouTube, but I look forward to it every week. When I was attending Tsujimura-sensei's doll class, I saw a collaboration work with One Piece. Right now, I'm making puppets with a vague dream of seeing a puppet show like "Shin Hakkenden" or "Sanada Ten Braves" by Akasaya Nine People. from Moon-san
O:Hey, I went to Jusaburo Tsujimura's doll class! Hey. No wonder I like dolls! Tsujimura-san, a doll artist who I respect and had the opportunity to talk about in the 6th volume of the ONE PIECE illustration collection "GORILLA". The samurai of Wano Kuni were made with Tsujimura-san's design in mind, so I'm happy that it's like a reverse import. If you search "one piece" or "puppet show" on YouTube, you can see Tsuki's doll making. Amazing. I like it fight!
D: How doesKingeat when he in mask? P.N. Ebi
O:Ah. Let's give him a dango. What!! Only the mouth is a pteranodon!!
Left: Nom, Right: Chomp Chomp
D: Hello Odacchi! Recently, there are a lot of people who look like One Piece YouTubers, but do you watch those channels too, Odacchi? There are no bad people in One Piece Mania!! (laughs) P.N. Massun
O:I know of its existence, and I have seen many things. Everyone is really knowledgeable and surprised. I'm going to guess what they're talking about, so I'm not going to watch it lol. It's dangerous for me to think that people at that level are readers, and there are many readers who read lightly, so I have to draw One Piece that suits everyone. When he sees people picking up stories like that, he seems to be depraved and thinks he doesn't need an explanation here lol. That's why I won't put in strict checks, so please have fun and get along. Oh, and the official YouTube channel "Friends are there Tube" has started, so please check it out.
Dialogue on the right: "Takeru's me, isn't it"Dialogue on the left: Ahahaha
D: Hello Odacchi!! I learned the name and anthropomorphization ofKaidou's kanabo club involume 100, so I'd also want to know name and anthropomorphization ofYamato's kanabo club!!!! P.N. Kota
O:Yes, I'm good at it! His name is "Takeru".
D: Hello, Oda-sensei. I have a question. Please tell me the names of theRed Hair Pirates' members other thanLucky Roux,Benn Beckman,YasoppandRockstar. P.N. I love rabbits
O:The Red Hair Pirates are now a huge crew, including their affiliates. The people who showed up in theSummit War of Marinefordbecame the current "executives", and they knowLuffy.
Shanks, Benn Beckman, Lucky Roux, Yasopp,Limejuice,Bonk Punch,Monster,Building Snake,Hongo,Howling Gaband Rockstar
Rockstar may be strong, but he doesn't have the title of officer.
"Pawoo!"
D: Faffaffa!! Odacchi, I like the cheerfulKiller-san, but what kind of smiley person would you be if you didn't fail? P.N.420 Land
O:Oh, that's interesting. It's true that there are a lot of people who don't really know whetherSMILE's ability is a success or a failure! Let's try it! What if the Killer's SMILE was a hit!? ...This is...How is it...!!
D: Please tell usUlti's ending number 1 and the worst one that was better thanPage One!! P.N. Luna
O:Well, I introduced "Gonsu" before, but it's true that we've been together for a long time and had various endings. "Nari" (classical "to be"), "Hamahage", "Gowasu" (very polite "to be"), "Matcha" (as in, the tea), "Desu wa yo" (very feminine), "Potato", "Dattebayo" ("believe it"), "Zamasu" (used by rich women), "Aru yo" ("so it is"), "Pakikefaro", "Nanora" (childish and cute sounding), "Ti" (from Ul-"ti"), "Roppo" (from Tobi-"roppo")... There is no word, but it seems that the worst ending is "dragon". It seems that she never thought it was better.
Inscription on bubble:"After all apple'""Doflaringo by sister
D: Hello Oda-sensei. Why does Oda-sensei cross the "O" of One Piece with her? I know it's a skull cross, but I'm worried that it's all written as "O" in SBS etc. P.N. Personification of Gigi
O:It's Nori!! I don't care about that, but there's a strange thing in the corner of the postcard!! "Doflaringo"! "by sister"! Your postcard is scribbled on by your sister! Lol Doflaringo is the best!
"Go Maria-sama!!!"
D: Hi Odacchi!! I'm honored to be adopted by SBS, which I've been longing for, and I'm deeply moved by Maria!! By the way, why are all ofBlack Maria's technique names so exquisitely lame? P.N. Jovshov
O:Do you hate it? Did you want her to fight without losing her coolness like that? As I said before, isn't that weak point of being a little lame, that's why I love you~? Laugh
O:Yes! This is a question from P.N. Mii-chan!! You can understand this if you think of a certain famous scene. Answer below!!
Give me a message! Straw Hat Anagram
Huh? TheStraw Hat Piratesare standing with Kanban cards. But it seems like there aren't many. What's more, they're standing separately, so the message doesn't get through!! Luffy says, "If you put us in order, he'll read the message for a certain person". Come on, let's line up and send a message!
Bepo: "Roar"
P.N. Mii
I'm sorry I'm bad at drawing
D: Oda-san, please tell us. Please draw a future where something happened toFrankyat 40 and 60 age. P.N. I love Nami
O:But Franky is already 36 years old, so let's make him 50 and 70.
A future where "something" happens
D: Why is there a strange pattern on Robin's breast, who has grown into a giant bloom? I was looking forward to it... but this is the second time I've felt such resentment. I will not forgive you. P.N. Nikuchiki
O:I'm... I'm so angry...!! The first time was when Black Maria wrapped her in a bleached cloak......! I received a lot of angry comments about this. First of all, I will explain that the matter of Black's Maria's exposure is "spider thread". As for Robin... Well, it's possible to make clothes out of parts of Robin's body, but when she's that size, I thought I'd have to put in the extra effort to imitate her clothes, but if she's naked, it goes beyond the scope of a shonen manga. The answer that Robin-san and I gave was that pattern! What the hell is that? We are waiting for everyone's views at SBS!! What the hell!
D: Eiichiro Oda-sama, I watchedChapter 1024with great interest. Isn't that person who calls himself a certain person Zoro-dono's father? P.N. Rollomiki
O:I had a lot of questions for "someone". It would be silly to say that person himself is obfuscating his name, but there were many people who guessed it, so I'll introduce it. Those three are actually the daimyo of a ruined towns.
Daimyo of Ringo,Shimotsuki Ushimaru; Daimyo of Kibi,Fugetsu Omusubi; Daimyo of Udon,Uzuki Tempura
After Oden's death, all the villages rose up take revenge onOrochi, but were defeated by theBeast Pirates. Since Shimotsuki Ushimaru was once renown alongsideOnimaru, fox who fought Zoro, so when he stoleShusuifrom Zoro, he was surprised to see that Zoro looked exactly like young Ushimaru, but since that scene was a little confusing. I cut it because it is too much. I may not say it in the main story. So the answer is that Ushimaru is not Zoro's father. The names of the three characters won't appear in the main story, so I'll reveal them here, but I'm debating whether to draw Ushimaru's bloodline again or hide it, so I'll put it on hold. It's similar, isn't it?
D: When I calculated the size ofShirahoshi's original based on the figure, it turned out to be about the same size as a light car. After that, kei cars can only be seen as TT! P.N. Sanadacchi
O:SANADA———!!!We're closing SBS!! That didn't happen!! Konoyaro!! It's over!! Look at the end of the book too!!
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 102.
D: Enough already! Everyone! Let's let Odacchi say "Start the SBS" every once in a while! Go on, Odacchi! (0.1 seconds later) Alright, nowTHE SBS HAS STARTED!!P.N. Yato Sumitaro
O:S...!! IT ALREADY STARTED!! 0.1 SECONDS ISN'T ENOUGH TIME!!
D:I WANT ASHIAWASE PUNCHFIGURINE.P.N. Captain Nobuo
O:YOU'RE VERY LOUD!!What the hell is this, right from the start!? Figurines can be spun around 360 degrees, so that idea is out!!
D: IfLuffy,Kid, andLawplayed a game of rock-paper-scissors, who would win? Would it be Luffy because he can see the future? P.N. Taisei (6-Year-Old Senior)
O:Okay! This is a great question! It's true that Luffy can see the future and could do that to win! But Luffy hates cheating, so I don't think he'd look into the future. The three of them don't get along very well with each other, I think they'd end up fighting no matter who wins!
D: Heso, Oda-sensei! IfEnelwere to actually become a pirate in theBlue Sea, I wonder what kind ofPirate Flaghe would fly?? I'm very curious. Something like this? → P.N. Shiba
O:Ah, that's good.
D: I got so excited by the powerful scene whereMomonosukeandKaidoubecame dragons and squared off against each other!!! I wonder if this scene was modeled after the Twin Dragons painting at Kennin-ji Temple, which Odacchi had previously visited for an interview!? P.N. Tsubocchi
O:That's right. I went to Kyoto before enteringWano Country. I saw it in person, there were two huge dragons on the ceiling, the painting was very impactful. I thought to myself: "I definitely have to draw this".
"Puts strain on the heels."
D: How doesFrankysleep? P.N. Born on New Year's Day
O:Here's a clear illustration, haha. This is totally fine. Franky can produce a cushion called the "Franky Airbag" from around the back of his head and waist, so he can sleep comfortably in any location.
D: Are the lines on Franky's arms hair? P.N. Takataka
O:It's hair.
D: Is theNine Sword Style: Ashura Bakkei: Moja no Tawamuretechnique used byZoroinChapter 1010named after the rakugo story "Jigoku Bakkei: Moja no Tawamure"? P.N. Khema
O:That's right! It's a well-known rakugo story. I know, I know, none of you listen to rakugo! But isn't the title cool!? The performance was the specialty of Master Beicho Katsura and the story is like a sightseeing tour through hell, it's enthralling.
D: Heso, Oda-sensei! I've always had a nose that grows longer every time I tell a lie, but nowhere near as long as my belovedUsopp's! Therefore, please tell meTHE TOP 5 BEST LONG NOSES and THE LENGTH OF USOPP'S NOSE!!P.N. Toy Bakery
O:I see. You've named a lot of different long-nosed characters, but I'm gonna leave outTenguyama Hitetsuand theGiants:
Usopp,Banchina,Kaku,Arlong,Kiwi, Mozu,Catarina Devon,Vasco Shot,Foxy,Mont-d'Or,Perospero
Well then, starting from fifth place! It's Kaku! Next, fourth place is Usopp!! Aw, how unfortunate. As you'd expect, Usopp is no match for the competitors with height differences and huge faces! By the way, Usopp's nose is 13 cm. Now, third place is Catarina Devon! Second place is Arlong! And finally, the long-nosed champion is~! Vasco Shot!! The world is vast. I wonder if someone will appear and break this record!?
D: I want to becomeO-Nami's retainer, so can I have the big kibi dango that O-Nami has dangling from her chest? P.N. Sanadacchi
O:Hey, this is Sanada-kun, isn't it? Oh, you just want some kibi dango, huh? O-Nami's... From her chest...GET OUT OF HERE!!!
D: Please personify Usopp's weapon,Kuro Kabuto, and his clasped satchel. P.N. New Sogeking
O:Sure, no problem.
D: Hello, Odacchi! I've been wondering for a long time now, when and where did Luffy first learn the term "Pirate King"? P.N. Masazou
O:He learned about it fromShanks' stories. Of course, Shanks didn't tell him that he used to be on thePirate King's ship. Before meeting Shanks,Garphad told him to become aMarine, but since he wanted to be able to adventure freely, Luffy was already somewhat resistant to the idea.
D: Hello, Odacchi! Looking at thecover pageofChapter 1031, it seems likeBepois the No. 2 of theHeart Pirates, right!? I was surprised because I thought thatPenguin,Shachi, and Bepo were all tied for No. 2! Are you saying that Bepo (withSulong?) is the strongest between them? P.N. Pudding-ya
O:That cover, huh? Like Zoro, not all of those characters have the title offirst mate. I selected the No. 2s as I saw fit. Usually, Shachi and Penguin are more dependable, but those two—who have seen Bepo's Sulong form—are no match for Bepo in terms of fighting power...! They acknowledge that.
D: Kid andKillerare beyond cool! The other members of theKid Piratesare drawn here and there, so could you please tell me their names? P.N. Koutarou
O:Sure. Uh, I'll show you the rough sketches, but not of all the members. The Kid Pirates has 31 people. You don't need to remember them! Haha.
(From left to right, top to bottom. Row One:Bubblegum,Wire, Eustass "Captain" Kid, Killer,Heat, andPapas. Row Two:Hip,Gig,Dive,Quincy,Boogie, andEmma. Row Three:Reck,UK,Jaguar,House,Pomp, andHop. Row Four:Mosh,Disc J,Moai, andCompo.)
O:Alright! Previously, I asked you guys a question about those stripes coveringRobin's chest when she usesGigante Fleur! I received various answers! Here are some of them!!
D: That was the only scar I was able to leave that one time I fought Robin and she beat me to a pulp. P.N. Tanigu Knows Reo
D: Vertical stripes to keep Robin from feeling naked and horizontally striped!! P.N. Tamaemon
D: Those are Demonio Lines. Like how veins pop out when people get angry. If she gets angrier than this, you'll get Demonio Fleur!! They're the warning lines. P.N. Kuriki Daichi
D: They were never breasts to begin with, aren't they onions? – P.N. I'm Right, Ain't I?
O:I see!! Thank you so much for all those points of view! Now, which was chosen as the official answer!!? Dadudududu~dum!! Take it away, Robin-san!!
Robin:They're onions. ♡ Fufufu...!
O:THEY WERE ONIONS!!! THEY WEREN'T BREASTS!!
D: Hello, Odacchi!! There's no end to the boob jokes in the SBS these days, is there? Are breasts the only thing men think about!? I'm fed up with reading this stuff. I was miserable when it became a booby-fest for an entire page inVolume 100. Are you nothing more than a pervert!!? But. Do you know...? The thing we ladies want to know...REVEAL ZORO'S CHEST MEASUREMENT!!!P.N. Roromiki
O:A PERVERTED WOMAN APPEARED!!!This SBS Corner is over! Damn it! I don't care how big Zoro's chest is! About 110? The SBS ends here!
However, this volume has more SBS byJinbe's voice actor, Hōki-san! (On page 168.)
H.D.K.!! (Hey, Domo, Konnichiwa) "Voice Actor SBS" where cats came! It's been a long time. It's been 10 years. Starting with Mayumi Tanaka, who plays Luffy in volume 52, and ending with Chō, who plays Brook in volume 64, nine people have done it, but with the addition of Jinbe as the 10th person, we received requests from everyone~! Let's do it! Today isJINBE'S VOICE ACTOR! SERIOUSLY BRAVE MAN! KATSUHISA HŌKI-SANin the house!!
O:Hey, it's Hōki-san. Introducing lily, next door!
H (Hōki):The sea~♪ The man~~♬ All the brothers~~ wow~~♬
O:Oooh!! Little bit!! I'm singing!! No, introduce yourself! I know you have confidence in your throat!
H:Oh yeah? Do you do that with me? Hmm~ the sea~♪
O:NO, IT'S ENOUGH!! LET'S GO!!
H:I'm Katsuhisa Hōki, and I finally got used to it. Beben!!
O:It's terrible. No, really, thank you for waiting. Readers have been waiting too! Well then, it's already too much, so let's go! This is the corner of SBS. Do you know what "SBS" means?
H:(S) SON'NANI (SO MUCH) (B) BOKU NO KOTO GA (ABOUT ME) (S) SUKINA NO KA (DO YOU LIKE IT)!?
O:I like it but it's different~!! It's going to be blurry~. Already.
H:(S) SSON'NANI (SO MUCH) (B) BOKU WA (I) (B) BOKETE NAI ZO!! (I'M NOT STUPID)!!
O:I beat the blur!! It's "SBB"!! And~It's time. Please do it!! Yes, this is a postcard!! (thump)
H:Alright, leave it to me!!
Mr. Katsuhisa Hōki's SBS continue to P186!!
D: Hello, Hōki-san. I have a question, do your lower teeth get in the way when you talk? P.N. Yupeko
H:I consulted a fishman dentist, but he said"YOU SHOULDN'T PULL IT OUT"(laughs)
D: Do you have webbing on your hands, Hōki-san? P.N. Rollomiki
H:OF COURSE!(Although it's a remnant) Everyone has it, right?
D: Hōki-san, which is your type, Nami-san or Robin-chan?? P.N. Rollomiki
H:Robin. You seem to know a lot about fishmen.
D: Have you ever done any martial arts? P.N. Ramenmaru
H:I've been doing judo since 3rd grade.IT'S A BLACK BELT!
D: Hōki-san, if Jinbe ate a Devil Fruit, what kind of fruit do you think it would be? P.N. 420 Land
H:Gyojin is a fishman who can live both on land and in the sea.TORI TORI NO MI!It's too painful to be unable to swim!
D: Hōki-san, do you really like mermaids? P.N. Match and Takeshi
H:I like beautiful mermaids (laughs)
D: Please tell me your favorite fish. P.N. Match and Takeshi
H:Nodoguro! Because it's delicious!
D: Jinbe andMoria. Who is the most difficult guy to play? P.N. Ryota Ehara (*Hōki also voiced Gekko Moria)
H:Jinbe, because Jinbe himself has led a life of twists and turns to her.
D: Please draw Jinbei without looking at anything. P.N. Yupeko
H:
D: How would you describe Jinbei in four-letter idioms? P.N. Ikeda
H:GO ON FIRE!
D: I was wondering if it was okay for someone like me to ask Hōki-san a question, so I couldn't pick up my pen... Damn it! Negative Hollow!! P.N. Occhi
H:... Uh... I'm sorry that I drowned in kindergarten even though I played a fishman.
D: Please tell us your favorite lines and scenes from Jinbe!! P.N. Occhi
H:"A man who wants to join the future "Pirate King" is as timid as the Four Emperors!!!" It's the scene where the sake cup is returned!
D: InSBS Volume 99, Jinbe's specialty dish was revealed to be "Katsuo no Tataki"! Do you have a favorite dish, Hōki-san? P.N. Shiba
H:Stir-fried vegetables, vegetable ramen. When I was a kid, I used to make and eat them myself!
D: Hōki-san, what kind of ability do you have? Please tell me!! P.N. YawD
H:The ability of "POO POO NO MI"! People call me Pooh Taro because I faint with farts...
O:Yes! Thank you for your hard work, Hōki-san~ It's time!! Are you saying something useless like "Poo Poo no Mi"! I can't stand being fainted by farts... ugh!! Grass... Patter...!!!
H:Ah. Odacchi!! Ikan has no pulse. Well then, everyone, disband!! Let's go home!
O:Don't leave me alone!!
Translations may have been modified since the original versions.
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 103. This SBS features two different corners, one being the standard question corner, and the other being aOne Piece Film: Redpromotional corner.
D: "I'm ashamed of SBS!!!!" P.N. Hebo
O:Uwaaaaaah!! I was assshaaaameeeeeed!! That makes sense!! That doesn't make sense!! (cries)
(Note: Reader makes a little wordplay. Usually SBSs start with readers "SBS wo hajimemasu" with hajimemasu being start, but reader this time starts with "SBS wo hajimasu" hajimemasu being "ashamed")
D: Odacchi, please tell me.Osome-chan's mouse "Chuji" looks exactly like the mouse thatSanjicooked for him when he was a child! Is it a relative or something? P.N. Fraland
O:You remembered well~. Sanji's core kindness can be seen by fact that he is liked by mouses. While they do look very similar, Chuji and the rat from Sanji's childhood are not relatives. I was relieved that Sanji wasn't taken in byGerma. However, the "power of science" that manifested in his body made Sanji even stronger. He's also gained the power to "vanish," but don't worry. It's all about speed, not a trick you can use in the bathroom lol.
D: I'd like to dateNami-san, but could Odacchi ask for her phone number?! Just don't let Sanji notice. P.N. Ramen Maru
O:Yes. 7373-737373. Please use a bigDen Den Mushiinstead of a smartphone! In the worst case, Sanji may be the one going to you by tracing your phone's location.
D: Hello Oda-sensei!! Inchapter 1032,YamatoandFugawere having a friendly conversation, but since when did the two of them get along? P.N. Ryunosuke
O:This is it, I tried to draw it many times, but I couldn't draw it because there were too many battle scenes. As you can see, Fuga has a "the power of the horse". Actually, this is the result of stealing and eatingSMILEfromKaidou's room when he was hungry (laughs). Kaidou was angry and put Fuga in a prison cell, and the other Numbers laugh at him because of his weird legs. After going though those bad ex-periences, Yamato says to crying Fuga "But those legs are cool!!". After that, Fuga and Yamato became good friends.
D: Does Karyudon (Fire Dragon Emperor) come from "curry udon"? DoesKinglikes udon? P.N. Inutchi
O:It is Curry udon. His favorite food isflying fishsashimi, but curry udon is also delicious!
D: Hello Oda-sensei!Momonosukeis 8 years old, sensei, why is he so perverted? Is Oda-sensei the same? P.N. Yu-kun
O:The question is, when do boys get so pervy? I'm trying to keep this a secret! Because if you make this public, they won't be able to use their "privileges"!! I won't open my mouth!!
D: 23 years!! Thank you for waiting!!! I'm sorry!!! I just bought a cola!!! Eh... what? No~ I told you inSBS Volume 9that I wanted to drink cola~. I had already bought it, but I forgot to give it to you. Yes, please!! P.N. Fukada Kokoro
O:EEEEEEEEEEEEEEH!!?Huh!!? Really. ...T ...Thanks. But when I looked it up, the expiry date for cola was about half a year... No...!! I should drink it!! Okay!! Glups, glups, glups cough!! Falls...
D: In an English vocabulary book I've searched the meaning of the word "snatch" means "the act to wrest (such as victory)". I couldn't stop thinking about the relationship with the samurai's "Sunacchi", so can you tell us about that? P.N. Yashirai
O:Yes, eh~ There is a slogan called "chest" in the swordsmanship of the Satsuma clan called Jigen-ryu. It means to jump into the opponent with an empty mind. If you use it as it is, it wouldn't make sense in the real-world, so I tried to use the word "Sunacchi" as a desperate slogan to "Surrender your name and be as a child."
D: Odacchi! Thank you for your hard work!! I can't assemble my Yamato figure because I'm so curious about whatAll-StarsandTobiroppowere like when they were children! If you don't mind, please draw them. Please! P.N. Setcho
O:It's a pity that you can't assemble your Yamato figure. Okay. I drewDrakebefore, so no need.
(From left to right, top to bottom. Row One:King,Queen,Jack. Row Two:Who's-Who,Sasaki,Black Maria. Row Three:Page One,Ulti.)
D: Oda-san, please tell us which PTA you like and which PTA you hate. P.N. Eyan
O:My favorite PTA is a PTA that enjoys One Piece with children!! I hate PT... there's no way I would hate it~~Nico Nico♡
D: In the same way thatLawaccepts the fate of being a member of theD. clan, who is the "natural enemy of God", Oda-san should also live with accepting that he is a "natural enemy of the PTA". P.N. Inugami Nekosei
O:NOOOOOO~!!I want to be liked by the PTA!! But I also want to draw kids' dreams...!! Damn it...!!
D: Hello Oda-san! Can you poop? P.N. Koutarou
O:I popped so much that I could see a town of Tokyo when I looked down!! Damn it...!!
Fukumi
D: Nin Nin. It seems thatRaizoandFukurokujuare rival ninjas, but I want to know what happened between them. P.N. Koutarou
O:Ah, I don't even need to talk about this, I just skipped this (laughs). Roughly speaking, it is like this. The genius ninja Raizo, who possesses "Maki Maki no Jutsu" and has an outstanding physical ability, lovedFukumi, the sickly younger sister of Fukurokuju, the leader of the ninja corps. One day, while on a mission, he rescued Fukumi, and she fell in love with Raizo's dependable appearance and tried to kiss him, but Raizo, who is too naive, rejects her happiness and injures her. Raizo couldn't look at her face and escaped. In her sickbed, Fukumi kept calling Raizo's name until she died. Fukurokuju, who misunderstood it as a grudge, was angry and his earlobes stretched. And he promised that he would never forgive Raizo for the rest of his life. Raizo makes no excuses.
D: Hello Oda-sensei. I will be a PTA officer from next year (laughs). I am (laughs). I would like to thank the villagers for their recommendation and do my best. P.N. Sanadacchi
O:Well, from this corner, the PTA executives will finally come out, and it's worth the healthy work up until now...SANADAAAAA!!! TELL ME IT'S A LIE!!
D: If the Straw Hat Pirates were to write a month's worth of schedules on their calendars, what would each of them write the most schedules for? P.N. Ebi
O:In the first place, I think the navigator Nami is the only one who cares about "date" and "time". Sanji also cares about "time", andRobinabout "date". They don't do things like birthday parties very often. They just celebrate whatever they want, whenever they want. Excluding "guard duty" and "helm duty", they are all basically always on "free time."
D: What was favorite food fromWano CountrythatLuffyand the others ate in Wano Country? P.N. Goemon
O:It seems that they were able to try a lot of different foods there because they stayed there for a long time.

D: Odacchi heso. My heart sounds like "Dondottotto♪ Dondottotto♬". Why? P.N. Jinbei
O:Eh...!? No way...!! Catch him!! Catch P.N. Jinbei right now!! This heartbeat...!!IT'S A PERSON WITH HIGH BLOOD PRESSURE~!!To the hospital~!!
D: Why isOrochistill alive!? Does this mean that theHebi Hebi no Mi, mythical model "Yamata no Orochi"have 8 lives?? P.N. Aba
O:Yes. If you don't cut his head 8 times, he won't die! This is also his ability!! It's annoying!!
D: Odacchi!!Apoo's full body areinstrumentsHead: CymbalsTeeth: PianoChest: DrumLeft arm: TrumpetRight arm: Stringed instrumentHis chin is something that goes "poof", isn't it? What other instruments does he have? P.N. Norisen
O:This is it. He has a triangle in his crotch! Yes, it's over! SBS continues in next volume~~!!
This section is dedicated toOne Piece Film: Redand does not feature questions from readers. The pages from this section were published beforehand online on July 18 in order to show them in color.[1]
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 104.

D: I have an important message from the PTA today. Though the SBS is a free corner where anything is possible, small children will read it, so please be careful about the content of the questions and the choice of words! Now,LET'S START SBS!P.N. PTA Officer Sanadacchi
O:Oh! It started... No... More than that.... Sanada, you... No, I want to let one person take it. Then calm down SBS... Let's do it.
D: Hello Odacchi! Inchapter 931,Sanjisays that Soba Mask's ability to become invisible is the power of theraid suit. Does that mean it is the power of the raid suit that allowsReijuto create and manipulate poison? If I were to be poisoned, would Reiju be able to save me if she wasn't wearing her raid suit? P.N. Nine
O:Em. First of all, the ability is the power of the suit, but sinceJudgesystematically started by creating a human body suitable for each "ability", Reiju is a person who is somewhat resistant to poison. If it's just sucking poison out of someone, she can do that without her raid suit. The rest depends on whether or not Reiju wants to save you. (laugh)
D: I want to become a cute raccoon likeChopperand haveRobin-san cuddle me. P.N. Ehehe
O:The relationship between those two is heartwarming. Right, Chopper? Chopper...!?
Chopper:I'M NOT A RACCOON!!!
D: Hello Oda-sensei! It was revealed that the name of one of theCP0members isMaha-san, but please let me know the names of the other members as well!!! P.N. YAMATORO
O:Sure.
D: Inrakugo, there is a story called "Yūdachi Kangoro" ("Evening Shower Kangoro"), but did "Yūdachi Kanjuro" come from there? Is there an origin ofKanjuro? P.N. 37
O:It's a story inrakugo, and also inkodan. In Kanjuro's case, the "Evening Shower" is scary, because it refers to a shower of blood. Kanjuro actually had a model, arakugostory about a sculptor named Jingoro Hidari, who made sculpture with his left hand so wonderful that they came to life and moved. In Kanjuro's case, it's the opposite. The details don't really matter, but Kanjuro draws all the bad pictures with his left hand. After his betrayal, he's right-handed. Isn't he annoying?!
D: I heard that anthropomorphizing belongings has become popular on SBS recently, so I'd likeZoro's haramaki and earrings, too! I'm sure they're so beautiful that Sanji would be jealous!!! P.N. Just Hentai
O:Oh, do you prefer women?
Labeled "Haramakiko" and "The Piercing Sisters" respectively
D: DoesYamatowear... underpants? Or a loincloth? P.N. Tomon
O:It's a loincloth. He's a samurai!
D: Compared to the first chapter, I feel that the number of members of the "Red Hair Pirates" has decreased. Does this mean that the teams are divided and they just don't appear? P.N. Negizaru
O:I don't know what scenes you're comparing with, butShanksactually has a big crew. All the members introduced involume 101are called "senior officers", and they have a number of separate pirate crews affiliated with their operation. It would be difficult if they all acted together all the time, so there may be times when it looks like a small number of people, but there are a lot of them. It's similar to the "Straw Hat Grand Fleet". But Shanks isn't a cruel tyrant ruling over them.
D: Please tell us about theTobiroppo's hobbies. P.N. Morley
O:Sure.
D:
From left to right:We want a respectable SBSPlease make the sickos leave the SBS foreverFree us from this pervert hell
O:Wow! Those sky boats... are so beautiful! Your wishes... have been answered! There are no more perverts in the SBS...!! Did you hear that, members of the PTA? We run a very safe, very wholesome segment here!!
D: Hello big brother Oda!! How didHiyori-chan get toOnigashima? P.N. Moki
O:Certainly, she just showed up, didn't she? But Hiyori was always determined to do this. By going in and out of theFlower Capital's castle as an oiran, she kept tabs on all the enemy's actions, so she hid in the "tribute" fromOrochitoKaidouand crossed the sea. So, when she reappeared, it was in the Treasure Hall!
D: Is there any reason whyKidandKillerformed apirate crew, or how they metHeatandWire? P.N. Dragon Water
Above: Kid and KillerBottom: Heat and Wire
O:Of course there is. These four were born on an island inSouth Blue, and Kid and Killer have been friends since childhood. The country is unaffiliated with the World Government, so gangs rule the island like kings. Each of the four towns on the island has its own gang, and the four bosses were Kid, Killer, Wire, and Heat, with constant conflict every day. One day, Kid's best girlfriend was killed by a gang. Her name was "Victoria S. (Shiruton) Doruyanaika". Kid, who got mad at her death, united the other gangs and defeated the country's number one gang. "I don't want to live in such a tiny world", he said, and became a pirate with his bad friends. Their ship is called the "Victoria Punk".
D: What is the name of the waiter who was preparing the feast at the castle? P.N.Tomon
O:That person is the head chef, not a waiter! It'sSennorikyuru, the best chef in Wano and a master of the tea ceremony.
D: The beauties of the SBS♡Namiand Robin are very pretty, but do they wear makeup? I would like to ask you about your beauty methods. P.N. 27 year old longing for Shakky
O:Let's ask. They'll probably just say "No, I don't use anything..."
Nami:I do! I wear minimal makeup, because skin care is challenging at sea! The sauna thatZeusmakes are perfect, and Robin's massages are the best! Sanji takes care of my diet, Chopper makes me lotions, foundations, creams, and skin packs, andBrookis an expert in hair care. And I keep up with my fitness!
O:Well, there you go. She does put the effort into it - with a lot of help from her friends!!
D: Please let me touch Nami-san's extra-large dumplings! P.N. Sanadacchi
O:? (Looks again)? Wait,SANADAAAAA!!!You...!! Do you have split personalities!? Resign from the PTA!! Then let's end SBS!! Damn it!! See you in next volume~~!!
Questions and answers aremachine translations, corrected based onVIZ Media's translation.
Translations may have been modified since the original versions.
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 105.

D: Today's the big concert for our princess, the wonderful Uta, so let's all lead a cheer for her! U-T-A! U-T-A! U-T-A! It's-time-to! Be-gin-the! S-B-S!!! P.N. Tokomon
O:It's-time-to! Be-gin-the! S-B-S has already begun!! (shock)
D: Odacchi~~...you're really good at drawing!! Odacchi~...you're good at drawing!!×6 I wrote that because I was bored. P.N. Chopami
O:Thank you~~ I'm so happy~~ See you~~ Bye-byyyyye.
D: Oda-sensei, why are flames coming out ofSanji's feet? P.N. T. Ura
O:Because it's cooler than if farts came out of his feet~ See you~~ Give me another postcard~~ Bye-byyyyye.
Chapter 1029→Chapter 1031→Chapter 1044
D: My question is about Sanji's eyebrow. Involume 102,chapter 1031, Sanji's eyebrows were reversed, but involume 103,chapter 1044, they're back to normal. Why did they change back? P.N. Rooftop
O:You noticed it well. Yes, his eyebrow does change. Going back to theWhole Cake Island Arc, all of Sanji's siblings were born with superhuman abilities and strong skin called an "exoskeleton", due to theLineage Factormanipulation performed on them. However, only Sanji was born as a normal human due to hismother'sresistance. Look at his brothers and sister's eyebrows.
Reiju, Ichiji, Niji, Yonji
←Everyone has "66", like Yonji. Sanji is the exact opposite. So, for him, the raid suit caused the power to science to manifest. Sanji already had an abnormal resistance to flame. That was a strange little event, wasn't it? Let's see where this takes him.
D: Hello. I likeOne Piece. I  heard theWano Country Arcis over. It's sad that the people in Wano who ate failed Devil Fruit can only laugh now, so I was hoping Chopper would make a medicine to cure them before the Straw Hats left the country. It's too sad for Killer that all he does is laugh. Please take care of this, Oda-sensei. P.N. M. Hiromi
O:Thank you for your kind postcard. It's really horrible to be unable to mourn, or do anything but laugh, just after your parent has died. But I don't think Chopper has the ability to make that medicine yet. There are things in the world you just can't do anything about, and this seems to be one of them. But when Killer could do nothing but laugh, the members of the Kid Pirates said, "Let's become a fun pirate crew!" and I laughed. It's great to be able to look on the bright side of life when things are depressing. I believe in the strength of the people of Wano!!
D: IsRyokugyubased on the actorYoshio Harada? He was so cool, my nose started bleeding. P.N. Match and Takeshi
O:That's right. He's famous for his role in the movieRonin-gai. He's already passed away, sadly, but he's a legendary actor.
D: Is there an actor who serves as a model for the director of the Marine Criminal Investigative ServiceKurouma, who appeared inChapter 1054? P.N. Jinbei
O:Tensei is modeled after an actor namedAkira Kobayashi. I thought about it, and realized that by putting my favorite legendary Japanese actors in the Marine's upper echelons like this... they're all going to have black hair! So that's why I didn't color his hair. I'm doing the same with Ryokugyu's hair. If you know my favorite movie, "Battles Without Honor and Humanity"... the scene of Akainu and Kurouma speaking to one another as equals is super exciting! They're awesome!!
D: Do the later members to join the crew (Robin, Franky, Brook, Jinbe) ever hear stories about the earlier adventures in the East Blue from the more senior members (like Usopp)? I'm really curious! P.N. Seito
O:Some things they know, some things they don't. Let's break it down by their personalities. Luffy and Zoro don't really talk about the past. Nami, Sanji, and Chopper will tell you if you ask them. And Usopp will tell you stories unprompted. Of course, the adults are smart enough to see through his lies, so if they're really curious, they'll ask Nami, Sanji, or Chopper. For the most part, however, the Straw Hats are a group who don't care too much about each others' pasts
D: InChapter 1045, Kaidou mentions "Comic Strips". Does that mean manga don't exist in theOPworld? Eh!? Kaidou has never readOne Piece? P.N. Kei
O:"Picture book" and "comic strips" appear inOne Piecefrom time to time. "Picture book" is self-explanatory, but please think of "comic strips" as the "manga" of theOPworld. Unlike manga, there is no concept of speech bubbles, so instead there are narrative boxes next to the art that have prose text and quotes from the characters. Famous comic strips include:Sora, Warrior of the Sea,Fire Dog,Pokeemon,Monkey Ball, andMaruko-san. There are all kinds out there.
D: What is Yamato's least favorite food? P.N. Gomu Mera no Mi
O:Spicy food. If he eats something spicy such as hot peppers or wasabi, he will yell "Hey!".
The inscription on the graves of Tama's parents: "Kurozumi".
D: I saw the word "Kurozumi" on the gravestones of O-Tama-chan's parents...! Does this mean O-Tama-chan was born into the same family as Orochi, who followed the path of revenge after the persecution of the Kurozumis, but is a symbol of hope for the new Wano Country, like Koala and Hody? P.N. Rimika
O:You've really gotten very deep into this story! I'll confirm it for you: O-Tama's birth name isKurozumi Tama. Should we hate her, then? In the final scenes of the arc, Hiyori clearly said, "Kurozumi was born to burn." Does that mean she's including O-Tama? No, of course not. It's clear from the story that Hiyori is referring specifically to Orochi. How would people react if they found out that O-Tama was from the Kurozumi Family? Please use your imagination. This has been a problem throughout human history that continues to this day.
D: Where exactly areMarinesokaki made? Where are they sold? I would like to try them! P.N. Shinonome Tomari
O:I think everyone knows that in the western part of the "South Blue" there is a stubborn okaki artisan,Ayesé Mar. "Okaki are rock'n'roll!!" is his motto.Sengokuloves his okaki, so the Marines buy a supply from him. They sell them at theMarine Headquartersshop.
O:Yes. A female reader told me that she has something to say to "Sanada"!
D: I wanted to say something to someone like Sanadacchi. "I worship, droll, and amvery, very, arousedover my beloved Shanks' chest!" It's the same as Sanadacchi's weird feelings for Nami-san! That's all. Ahh, I feel refreshed now ♡ P.N. Munecchicchi
O:'Wait a second! You're trying to compete with him?!
D: Let me bite into O-Nami's extra-large dango! P.N. Sanadacchi
O:Not you too!! You're both banned!! Get out of here!!And what about your PTA job...!?
D: I have a question. In this scene, is Killer eating takoyaki!? He's only supposed to be able to eat long thin noodles. P.N. Occhi
O:Look carefully! I've been asked this several times, but it'syakisoba! So it's okay! He was slurping them through the holes. Recently, my astigmatism has gotten worse, so I could have made that clearer. It was my fault too!
D: Hello Oda-sensei! What was the content of the book that Nami and Toko were reading inchapter 1052? I'm curious, but I can already tell one thing - it's not something Sanji's interested in! P.N. Yu-kun
O:Oh, you noticed them? It's a heartwarming scene. Nami loves to pore over the books she finds wherever they go. It looks like she found this in the library in the castle. I believe it's a fashion book about kimono. But Sanji's looking the other way.
O:There were so many people who asked the question "what is Zoro's lineage?". I don't think there's anything to explain in the main story anymore, so I'll announce it here.
O:The younger brother ofShimotsuki Furiko, who was on the ship that set sail from Wano, was none other than the "so-and-so" who met Yamato as a child,Shimotsuki Ushimaru, former daimyo of Ringo and the descendant of Wano's mythical samurai, Shimotsuki Ryuma, whom Zoro met back at Thriller Bark. In other words... what does that mean...?! It's a story of a very strange, twisted fate that even Zoro is unaware of.
D: What does Kaidou look like when he eats anumeboshi? P.N. Junya
Too sour!
O:Here→
D: Serious question.One Piecehas a lot of cleavage shots, but no panty shots. Is there a personal policy you have that informs that decision? P.N. Panty Shot God
O:Well...I'm just not interested in them. (laugh)Since I was a child, various cartoons have used panty shots as fan service, but it's always something that passively happens to the female characters... So I thought it was a revolutionary move for Nami to take an active role instead when she used the "Shiawase Punch".
D: Odacchi, did the model for "Kaen Daiko" inchapter 1048come from the classicrakugostory "The Flaming Drum"? P.N. Shinnosu(T/N: "The Flaming Drum" is pronounced "Kaen Daiko" in Japanese, but spelled with different kanji.)O:That's right! Not that anyone cares! (laugh) There's a new rakugo manga called "Akane Banashi" inJumpright now. It's good, so check it out.
D: Oda-san! Inchapter 1052, is the man with glasses who teaches at the school based on the classical singer and actor Torazō Hirosawa? I believe you said on a radio interview a long time ago that you were a fan... P.N. Negizaru
O:That's right!! That's more hardcore territory than rakugo, but that's right! Rakugo,rōkyoku, historical lectures, and samurai dramas! The Wano Country Arc has been packed with all of my favorite traditional arts!Beben!!That's it for SBSover! See you in the next volume~~!!
Translated bymachine translation, corrected byBabaev. Later adjusted based on translations byVIZ Media.
Translations may have been modified since the original versions.
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 106.

D: Here, Odacchi! Chocolate for you.♡ Take a break and have some.♡ Oops! That was a poisoned-filled one!! Sorry♡Let's start the SBS, choc-full of questions!♡P.N. Akizo
'O:Thump... Beep... Beep... Oh!!I almost died!!Huff... huff...If there's one thing I know about chocolates, it's that there areno poison-filled ones!!
D: Oda-sensei, congratulations on winning the WBC. P.N. Daikon Man
O:Well, thank you! Did you hear that? I boiledwakameseaweed deliciously with the Wakame Boiling Club.
D: Who gets more women,ShanksorBenn Beckman? P.N. Kikuno
O:Shanks is more popular, I think. But Beckman hits on many more women. Beckman loves the ladies.
D: Odacchi!! Please tell me the Straw Hat Pirates' alcohol tolerance ranking. You've depictedZoroandNamibeing resistant to booze, but what about the others? P.N. Kuromu
O:It was difficult to make this rating. "Like to drink" and "be able to drink" are different things, so not everyone drinks with the same enthusiasm. I thinkLuffyhas the potential to drink a lot, but food comes first for him.
D: Please anthropomorphizeLaw'sKikoku. P.N. Gomu Mera no Mi
D: Odacchi!! I want the personification ofKatakuri'sMogura. You always draw dumb ones, so make this one cool. P.N. Teriyaki Burger
Mogura:Yum, donut.Kikoku:Ahh, I'm so tired from my travel.
O:Sure!
D: I have a question. Is the "K" in Law's awakened technique "K-ROOM" short forKakusei("Awakening")? Or is it from "Kikoku"? P.N. Black Handkerchief of Happiness
O:Law's battle techniques involve creating a "Room", which is his own surgical room where he can do anything he wants. In K-Room, he locks his own sword within the Room. Within the operating room, he can make the sword grow and give off powerful shock waves. The K is short for "Knife".
The other Awakening technique, R-Room, is short for "Remote". Prior to this, Law would need to be within the Room as the surgeon, but his Awakening of the Ope Ope no Mi's power made it possible for him to control the operating room without being in there. If that seems too complicated, don't worry! Just go on vibes.(laugh)
D: Hello Oda-sensei! We've seenRob Lucciand otherCP9agents get promoted toCP0, but notJabra,Fukurou, orKumadori. Are they part of CP0 too? P.N. Sakuragi
O:If you sawOne Piece Film: Red, you'll know thatBluenoandKalifaare members of CP0 as well. Yes, all the past CP9 members are in CP0 now. However, the masked members of CP0 (including Lucci,Kaku, andStussy), are called the "Masked Assassins", and are given more specialized orders than the others.
D: I want to eat onigiri made byRobin-chan's beautiful hands. P.N. O-Nebō
O:Me too.
D: Itotallyagree. P.N. Koppa Mijinko
O:Oh...!! I see. You know, it takes guts to submit a letter like this, and totally gamble on how it'll be used...
D: Whenlittle-girl Hancockuses her "Mero Mero Mellow" attack and turns you to stone, will other people accuse you of being alolicon? They won't, will they? Please tell me I'm still safe!! P.N. Yamaguchi University One Piece Study Circle
O:Those powers work by leaving people vulnerable whenever they feel that the user is cute or pretty. Well, everyone thinks babies and little kids are cute, right? That's enough for the power to turn you to stone. So if one of the people who got petrified happened to be a lolicon, you would not be able to tell that was the reason why. Nobody will know you're a creep... but have fun getting turned to stone anyway!
D: When eating natto, try lifting the film directly upward. You can reenact the scene inchapter 1060when theLulusia Kingdomwas destroyed. P.N. Ebi (Romy)
O:I see~! It certainly has that mysterious ray of light feel to it. It feels really sticky...Stop it!! People died in that incident!!!
D: When we seeMarine Headquarters G-14 BranchinChapter 1061, are those balloon-looking things at the edge of the base actually balloons? Did someone attach balloons there for fun? P.N. Taro
O:Yes, they're balloons. The G-14 Branch is located nearEgghead. The children who were affected in thePunk Hazard Arcwere first seen byVegapunk, and they've been getting treatment at G-14 since then. Since Marine bases are big, ugly buildings, Vice AdmiralDollhad the balloons attached to make things a bit more appealing and reassuring to the children.
D: Oda-sensei, I want to be friends with Marco the Phoenix. Please ask him if it's okay. P.N. WantsaFriend
O:Sure. Marco, what do you say?
Marco:It's cool-yoi.
D: The automated cooking machine has buttons with cardinal directions like "EAST". Are those for the seasonings of the different regions of the world? What kind of flavoring do they use? P.N. Yoshida
O:Actually, you'll notice that there are a bunch of circular buttons to the sides, but not enough for all 500 dishes the machine can make. That's because when you press "EAST", they all change images to dishes from theEast Blue. If you press "WEST", "SOUTH", or "NORTH", the buttons will change to different sets of food. And this machine of dreams can make them all!
D: Hello Oda-sensei. In theSBS Volume 105, you mentioned how you'll draw cleavage shots, but you don't draw panty shots. And yet, since starting theEgghead Arc, I can't help but notice a drastic increase in butt-centric angles. Did you do this specifically for me, knowing that I'm a butt man? P.N. Nikukichi
O:For the "Future Island" arc, I wanted to accentuate a stark difference from modern-day fashion standards and wound up with designs that really showed off the butt. Since I haven't drawn any panty shots before, I realized that I wasn't very good at drawing butts, so I've been studying how to draw them more sexy, and I think I've gotten a lot better at it. It started being fun to me, so now I'm drawing more butt angles! Drawing is fun!
D: Odacchi! Odacchi! Is no one going to ask whatBrook's future will look like? As an afro fan, I can't stand it! Odacchi, please show me the potential of the skeleton afro!
O:Sure.
20 years later, 40 years laterIn a different future: 20 years later, 40 years later
D: I would like to know the name of the cat assistant who appears in that one panel inchapter 1065. P.N. Red Cat
O:Are you talking about the assistant cat "Joshu"? It is rumored that it loves to help people, and when you need to jot down a note, it's there with a pen and paper. Some people say he can useObservation Haki. It'll even scratch my back when it's itchy.
D: In the conversation between Vegapunk andSentomaruinChapter 1069, there's a bit of dialogue that goes, "the man who took you in and saved your life." What sort of background do they have!? P.N. Jushiro Itcha
O:TheMarinesreceived a message that wild bears were invading a village on a certain island. Vegapunk accompanied the dispatch force to install a bear repelling system. When the Marines explored the dangerous mountain, they found a young Sentomaru defeating bears in sumo wrestling to become the master of the mountain. When he was young, the villagers abandoned him because he was too violent. Vegapunk was so drawn to the strength of this young and constantly starving boy that he hired him to be a bodyguard. And the rest is history.
D: I figured it out. AboutRyokugyu. InChapter 905, he said, "I haven't eaten anything for three years!" Is that because Ryokugyu is a forest (tree? plant?) and can use photosynthesis to get his nutrients without physically eating any food?! P.N. Otaki
O:That's right!
D: Does the "Shikawa Shinju" ("Double Suicide at Death River") tattoo on Aramaki's chest refer toYoshio Harada's song "Shinjuku Shinju" ("Double Suicide in Shinjuku")? P.N. Morley
O:He does have a song with that title, but no. As a matter of fact, there is a classicrakugostory called "Double Suicide in Shinagawa", which is what I was paying homage to. Double suicides are often of ill-fated lovers, and Aramaki seems to have some tragic background revolving around women. It would seem this tattoo refers to that.
D: What kind of justice does Ryokugyu advocate for? It seems like he has a strong ideology, so I'm curious! P.N. Polaris
O:Ryokugyu observes "Determined Justice". There were many people who wanted to knowFujitora's justice too, so I'll say it that he follows "Humane Justice".
D: InChapter 1074, there's a scene where Robin calms down Nami who is angry at Lucci. What kind of conversation were they having?
O:That's a very minor detail to spot. Lucci, of course, was the toughest antagonist in the Enies Lobby Arc, where he tormented Robin. Nami's saying, "You won't mess with Robin again if I have anything to say about it!" While Robin is saying, "Go easy, he's defenseless right now..."
That's all for this volume! See you next time!!
Translated bymachine translation, then corrected for grammar. Later adjusted based on translations byVIZ Media.
Translations may have been modified since the original versions.
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 107.

O:Scary!! It's starting... (slump)
D: Today's guest is Odacchi! Hey, did you cut your head off? P.N. Takataka
O:Oh yea, I wanted to clear my head soI cut it off!
Vegapunk in the pool of water
D: When Vegapunk still had his enormous head, how did he wash it? P.N. Takashi-kun
O:Like this. He dipped his head in a pool full ofscrubfishand they cleaned his head.
D: Is it true that Odacchi is a "Stella" with six "Satellites"? P.N. Nakayu
O:Yes!! From left to right: "York" (Greed), "York", "York", "York", "York", and "York". There are six of them and it's the worst!
"Imu"
D: Could Imu's true appearance be someone with a very long and pointy mouth? P.N. Nori EZT
O:Ok. I'll just mark this as "read"...
D: What's the name of Bonney's Devil Fruit? I know many similar questions have been sent to you but please tell us! P.N. Kuragepan
O:Yes, I've been asked many times and I noticed and thought to myself "I haven't revealed it yet?" She is an "Age Manipulation Human" with the "Toshi Toshi no Mi". For the sake of those who don't read the SBS, I need to mention this in the main story too.
D: When Luffy met Bonney he called her "Boggy", but he quickly changed it to "Bonney". Is there any particular reason for this? P.N. Machan
O:Indeed, it's featured in the panel on the right, but before that, when Luffy heard that Bonney's father had been turned into a cyborg, he was excited and said "that's cool!" He regretted that, and he called her "Boggy" and was immediately corrected, which made him feel so bad. Even Luffy won't make that mistake twice.
Arrow pointing to Caribou's position
D: Hello Oda-san! When Luffy was talking about the end of his dream, Caribou was nearby inside a barrel! Does this mean that Caribou also heard the end of Luffy's dream? P.N. Sena
O:So, a lot of people were bothered by this, but please look at the previous page. Even when they spoke in a loud voice, he can only barely hear what they say. It didn't reach inside the barrel, so it's okay. It was only the Straw Hat Pirates who heard the end of Luffy's dream!
D: I have a question for Odacchi. My father's head is becoming more and more like an egghead, is there any way to stop it? P.N. Torikeka Sakiko
O:I'm sorry that he's bald! But he's probably getting smarter and smarter, so pay attention to your father's scientific ability! Civilization never stops.
D: Hello Oda-sensei! If the three former and present Admirals were in the real world, what kinds of professions would they have? P.N. Sakuragi
O:I think all five of them would be radio presenters lol! "All Night Nippon of the Three Admirals"! For those who don't know, go and search for it!Translator's note: Oda is referring toAll Night Nippon, a longtime Japanese radio program broadcast from 1 to 5 am.
D: What came out of Brook's eye sockets when he saw Zoro sleeping with Toko and Hiyori? P.N. Yutan
O:True... despite not having eyeballs...!! Because it's black... maybe coffee? Oh, or a black cat? I'll make it a black cat.
D: In the past, Koby's goal was to become a commissioned officer of the Marines, and now he's a Captain! His next goal is to be an Admiral, but would his rank still rise, even if he's now a member of SWORD whose resignation documents are already formally submitted? P.N. Hinokuni Toppi
O:Yes. Was the explanation about SWORD a bit complicated? In chapter 1080, Aokiji said "formal submission of documents" and "they can be disavowed at any time". This means, they entrusted their resignation but they are not disavowed yet. In the case of a SWORD member getting caught and becoming a hostage, the Marines will acknowledge their resignation then and there and say "that guy is not a Marine soldier!" and forsake them. SWORD members are fine with this, so they can fight as they please.
D: Hello Odacchi! Everyone may not realize it, but I'm an adult, so I was shocked! Hibari-chan from SWORD is in love with Koby, right? Right? P.N. Kurubushi Taro
O:"Honoji"(ほの字?)! That's an old expression! 35-year-old Kurubushi Taro! "Honoji" means "in love with". Well, I'm a dense man, so I don't really know if she does.Translator's note: "Honoji" is an older Japanese word that roughly translates "in love with", specifically referring to a "butterflies in the stomach" feeling. It is the term used in the original question to ask about Hibari's feelings.
D: It seems like the SWORD member Hibari has a cute bear plush toy in her backpack. I want to know the details! P.N. Kurubushi Taro
O:So you noticed it! That bear is a lucky charm that Hibari treasures from when she was little. At one time, her life was saved by Koby in a battlefield, but she lost the bear. A few days later, Koby was injured and was severely told off by a superior. In Koby's hand was the bear. He had returned to the battlefield and searched for Hibari's treasure. Hibari was crying and grateful. She secretly named the bear "Kopy-senpai". But I'm a dense man, so I don't know if she's "head over heels" for him or not.
D: To Oda-sensei. Why did you make a character like Kujaku?! We're going to have perverts like Sanada again! I like clean SBS!! P.N. Gomumera no Mi
O:I don't think you'll see perverts because of Kujaku. It's okay! I haven't seen postcards from Sanada this time! Peace and tranquility have come to the SBS at last! (cries)
D: Please tell me the name of Kujaku's whip. P.N. Kei
O:Hmmm, wait a minute. I have other questions about her whip...
D: I'm curious about the material of Kujaku's favorite whip. If things go well,I'd like her to train me too.P.N. One Piece Consideration Circle
D: Hello Odacchi! About Rear Admiral Kujaku, I think that it was only after eating the Muchi Muchi no Mi that she got a body that whips so well.I hope she whips me too.P.N. Tomon
O:Are you all idiots?!Even though Sanada isn't here, the perverts who want to be whipped have gathered together!! You guys, whips are scary!Beethoven, used by Kujaku, has a steel core, so it can cut objects such as stone in half. You know what? Fine! Go ahead and get whipped, you perverts! See if I care!
D: It seems that you were researching how to draw a sexy butt. Is it just the female character's butts? What happened to the male characters'?!Huh?!P.N. Please draw a shower scene of Law
O:Are you threatening me to draw a man's butt?!
D: This is what SBS is all about. P.N. Yutan
O:No, it's not!!!
D: Why is Rear Admiral Grus' cap visor so long? P.N. Polaris
O:We go back to the time when he was a kid. Grus was a gloomy kid who always looked down when he walked. This resulted in him bumping into a lot of things. Walls, cows, people, pirates. When he bumped into pirates, he was severely hurt. His mother made him wear a cap with a long visor so he wouldn't bump into what's in front of him anymore. That's why it's long!
Pythagoras and Robocon
D: Hello Oda-san. When I saw Dr. Vegapunk's Pythagoras in chapter 1065, I thought that he looked exactly like Robocon from thetokusatsushowGanbare!! Robocon, so I thought it may be a reference. Is that the case? P.N. Takumi
O:Yes, you're right! I know this TV show from more than 40 years ago, since I was in kindergarten, lol. When I think of a robot, this is the shape I want!! I remembered this and drew it. By the way, there was a guy named Bara-Bara Man, who was Robocon's nemesis. I hated it when he showed up to dismantle Robocon. When I think about it now, I can't help but feel like Buggy's persistence is linked.Translator's note: Bara-Bara Man was actually from the similar tokusatsu showRobot 8-chan, created by the same person asGanbare!! Robocon.
Jiron and Jiron Amos
D: Does the name of the Revolutionary Army's deputy commander of the Northern Army, Jiron, come from Jiron Amos, the main character ofCombat Mecha Xabungle? P.N. Tokomon
O:What...!! How do you know Jiron? I think he's also from an anime from about 40 years ago. I remembered that the face was round and tried to draw it. I can also sing the theme song. Childhood memories are amazing, aren't they?
D: It's a pleasure to meet you, Oda-sensei. I'm happy to be on SBS. I'm getting excited. So I have a question.. (elevator closes)Di~ng. P.N. Yutan
O:.....? Eh... Yes, then let's move on.
Iyan'eno Chinode, as drawn in the SBS
D: Oda-sensei, I'm about to lose it... please tell me the name of the girl who lent Vivi-chan her clothes on the last page of chapter 1074. I'm going to go get up in her face and tell her that I wanted to give Vivimyclothes! P.N. Ari
O:Hey, don't get so mad. With her life in tatters, both physically and mentally, the person who approached Vivi and lent her clothes wasIyan'eno Chinode(age 24), a reporter in charge of the World Economy News Paper's most popular fashion column "Streetcorner Collection". She is a diligent reporter with a fiery personality, and is well-liked by her coworkers.
D: In chapter 1076, Lucky Roux said "Gyahahaha! That's rich coming from you, Beck!! Who do you think he's mad at?!" So... does this mean that it was Beckman who took Kid's arm? P.N. Ehara Ryota
O:Yes, it seems like it! This is the world of pirates, where only the strong ones remain! That's all for this SBS! See you next volume!
D:Di~ng(The elevator opens) The question is... huh? Is SBS over? P.N. Yutan
Various questions translated byPewpiece/TheWillOfMarco. Other questions are based on correctedmachine translations. All translations later adjusted based on translations byVIZ Media.
Translations by Pewpiece/TheWillOfMarco:
Translations may have been modified since the original versions.
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 108.

D: Oda-sensei! Would you like to playshiritori? I'll start! So, "Let's start the SBS!!" P.N. Nyarin
O:Uhh... "su"... "su"... "soft-shelled turtle"!! Ahhh!! That ended with "N"!! I lost, damn it! Rather than that,I guess we started!!
T/N: "Let's start the SBS" ends with the character す, pronounced "su". Oda's response, "soft-shelled turtle", starts with the same character, and ends with ん, pronounced "n".
D: What's in thetaiyakiinShirahoshi's hair?Anko? Custard? P.N. Ebi (Romy)
O:It's anko. And it has butter, so it tastes likeNagoya'sogura toast. I hear it's really good! It goes well with coffee.
T/N: The next question is written with a child's handwriting, rather than the standard print font.
D: Mr. Eiichiro Oda, why are volumes25and105almost exactly the same? P.N. Yukihito (age 8)
O:Ah!! I'm ruined!! You figured out I was cutting corners! But... if you think about it, these books happen to have the same characters in them, so you can see how this mistake happened! Thanks for your understanding and the postcard!
D: The SBS was born to be erotic! P.N. Yutan
O:Okay, you. Step outside.
Garling with his hair grown out.
D:St. Garlinghas a unique hairstyle. What would it look like if he kept growing his hair and beard? P.N. Tokomon
O:This.
Ivankov with the Uo Uo no Mi, Model: Seiryu
D: Odacchi! What wouldIva-chanhave looked like if he had eaten theUo Uo no Mi, Model: SeiryuonGod Valley? Hee-haw!! P.N. 420 Land
O:Interesting question. Funny how fate can so narrowly avoid other outcomes. It's scary, isn't it? His face, I mean. (This will be a spoiler for those who only read the volumes. I'm sorry, but I didn't want to include this ridiculous page in the middle of such a serious story.)
D: Odacchi, I have a favor to ask of you. I was moved when I saw that Roger's favorite sword was called "Ace" in theVivre Cards. Could personify it? P.N. Muscle Lady
O:Oh...!! I've received a few requests like this, it's not fair! Now I have no choice but to draw it: the personification of Ace. Well, I really want to draw it looking cool, so I'll draw it in earnest on the next SBS (page 80). It's there, it's there. Now, GO!
Personified Ace.
O:Here, this is the personification of Gold Roger's sword Ace. It's quite a big service from me! Truly.
D: Please help me! My girlfriend keeps saying "Nipple Light" and won't stop!!! What should I do? P.N. Kenkenkentaro
O:I've got a few myself!!Flash!!
D: What do you thinkKinderellalikes aboutWapolother than his money? Is it his face? Or his heart? Is it power? P.N. Ge
O:Just money!!
D: Hello Oda-sensei! Inchapter 1066, were the people who recoveredOhara's books from the lake theNew Giant Warrior Pirates'Hajrudin,Gerd, andGoldberg? P.N. Yū-kun
O:You looked at it very closely. Yes, that's right. There were many other Giants who came, but the three that you can see, yes. I wonder who their captain was?
The Big Top Blaster
D: What is the name of the newCross Guildship? P.N. Tomon
O:It's the "Big Top Blaster".
D: Hello Oda-sensei! Inchapter 1058,Crocodilesays thatMihawkused to be called "Marine Hunter". Does this have something to do with Mihawk joining theSeven Warlords of the Sea? P.N. Yū-kun
O:Mihawk has a past that makes him resent Marines, and he has suffered a great betrayal. So, in the sense that he's lonely, he's in the same category as Crocodile who doesn't trust people, and is already tired of life. I think he joined the Warlords because it was peaceful, at least in the sense that he wasn't chased by Marines... but now that he's lost his place, he's come up with the idea of hiding behind Buggy.
"Winter Cuisine" Komakkov
D: Mr. Oda, I have a question!!Wanzewas the one who made the ramen thatKizaruand the otherMarinesate, right? P.N. Yū-san
O:Ehhh!! No way!!You know how he makes his ramen, don't you? It's gross! No, and especially because there's not only an "Admiral" but even an "Elder" on board, they're accompanied by one ofMarine Headquarters'Four Head Chefs, "Winter Cuisine"Komakkov. He makes the ramen.
D: I don't want to upset my stomach, so I have question!! Can you eat the apple fromVegapunk's head? P.N. Kiyohiro
O:You will get food poisoning.
D: Which pirate crew does the beautiful lady huggingShanksinchapter 1079belong to? I want to hug her too. P.N. One Piece Theory Club
O:Ah, that'sLinariafrom theNight Butterfly Pirates. When she was young, her life was saved by Shanks, so she admired him and became a pirate. She is known as "Igniting" Linaria, a person who is quick to set fires. Her catchphrase is "Put it on Shanks' tab ♡".
D: Hello Odacchi! Inchapter 872ofvolume 87Morganssays "That's right!! I can't fly!!" Is Morgans a flightless bird from theMink Tribe? P.N. Odacchi and Sanadacchistan
O:First of all, there are no bird-like people in the Mink Tribe. They are a humanoid race of furry animals. Morgans is a user of theTori Tori no Mi, Model: Albatrosswho always stays in his Human-Beast form. I wonder what he looks like as a regular human.
D: IsVega Colaan original flavor created by Vegapunk? Be sure to askFrankyif it's super good! P.N.Yamaguchi UniversityOne Piece Theory Club
F:Oh wow! That's the taste of a geniuuuus!!
O:You heard him. It tastes like genius.
D: Hello Odacchi! Good evening! I was readingOne Pieceand thought of something: when Luffy and his friends fight, they say the names of their moves. Is there a reason for this? P.N. The Name of theCaucacus BeetleIs Caucacus Beetle
O:I see, there are some manga that don't do that. It's really just for children to imitate. For example, Boy A waves his arms in the distance and says "Gomu Gomu no Pistol!" Although his arm doesn't actually extend, Boy B, who's far away, pretends to get hit and says "Woah!" This is because they both understand what the "Gomu Gomu no Pistol" is. Otherwise, A would sayorya!, and B would say "hm?" There are many ways to entertain readers in manga. Adults should try it at work, too, without being shy.
D: I have aDevil FruitI came up with after hearing about Odacchi. It's called the Bai Bai no Mi. You can use it to double anything. P.N. Test Score 5 Points
O:Thank you, P.N. Test Score 5 Points. If you ate it, you could double your points!! But it still wouldn't be enough!! LOL
Vice Admiral Hototogisu
D: Please tell us about the Marine's classroom lecture we saw. I want to know about the female Marine who scolded Garp with "All lives are equal!!!" P.N. Takashi-kun
O:That'sVice AdmiralHototogisu, a subordinate of Vice AdmiralTsuruand a Vice Admiral herself.
D: Please tell us about the hobbies of theSWORDmembersDrake-san,Hibari-chan,Grus,Kujaku-san, andHelmeppo. from M. Misa-san
O:It's funny how you refer to them with differenthonorifics, though I get it, LOL.
D: To all theWorld Nobles.I hate youP.N. Kei
O:I get it!!I hate them too!!
D: Hello, Odacchi! AreKuma'sears hair? DidGinnytie the cute bear ears for him? P.N. Moe-chan
O:It's hisbedhead.
D: Do normal people live on the Pirate IslandHachinosu? P.N. Negizairu
O:No, they're all villains. Ex-criminals run the shops. Even though it's lawless, there are still rules for being a villain.
D:Nami,Reiju, andViola: these three people have something in common. Well, what is it? Here's a hint: it's actually two things, and they're round and soft! The correct answer isJ-cup boobs!P.N. Sanadacchi
O:I see, I'm learning a lot...No, no, no, no, no!!This time it's a serious story, so you can't be the only one.See you next volume!!Wait, Sanada...
Translated bymachine translation, and corrected using translations bypewpiece,TheWillOfMarco, andInumaru08and translations byArtur-Library of Oharawhen available. All translations later adjusted based on translations byVIZ Media.
Translations may have been modified since the original versions.
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 109.

Arrow points to Oda's opening statement
O:(Whew) Right now... I'm flying over the ocean... A while ago a large man asked me "Where would you like to go if you were to travel?" So I said "Well, I'd like to see the Aurora in Antarctica..." Aaaaaaaaah...
D: Is it true that Topman Warcury's mustache is actually a boomerang? P.N. Ebi (Romy)
O:Aaaaaaaah -Gonk!! - Aaaaaaah - It's cold!! Huh... where am I?
D: What would happen if the apple on Vegapunk's head was a banana instead? P.N. Moichi
O:Oh! It's the Aurora!! It's beautiful!! I'm cold!! Whoosh! Brrr...
D: "SBS"? There was never such a corner in the first place... P.N. Yutan
O:What? The sky?! Aaaagh!! (Boom!! Boom!!)
D: Does Edison plug into an electrical outlet? P.N. Polaris
O:I don't know!!You guys, the author was sent to the Antarctic and was attacked from the sky while you all asked a bunch of questions. Aren't you worried?! An electrical outlet? A banana? A boomerang?I don't know!!
D: Hello Odacchi! Elder Nyon said that the empress from two generations ago also died of Love Sickness, but that's Shakuyaku, right? Why did Elder Nyon lie? P.N. Kiri
O:I think you misread it. She wasn't lying, but when she said "the empresses before her suffered from it too", she just meant catching Love Sickness. In fact, the empresses and warriors of this country have been dying of this disease for a long time without knowing why, and it was only recently that they discovered they could escape death by going abroad.
That's how it all fits together.
D: Inchapter 1096, Elder Nyon, also known as Gloriosa, was in the Rocks Pirates crew, but does that mean the person she fell in love with was someone from the Rocks Pirates? P.N. Kuragepan
O:Hmmm, if the way to suppress Love Sickness is to be close to the person you're in love with... then yes, it might be someone from the Rocks Pirates.
D: Finally, Shiki the Golden Lion has appeared in the main story. Does this mean that the movie"Strong World"has officially been incorporated into the main story timeline? P.N. H. Yutaro
O:Well, it's possible to incorporate most movies into the story, even if it is a bit forced, but then it would make watching the movie obligatory, so I don't really connect it to the original work. However, in the case of Strong World, I came up with the story, and I used Shiki, who originally existed in the setting of the main story, in the movie. However, if it wasn't for the movie, Shiki wouldn't have eaten theFuwa Fuwa no Mi. I had a rule in my mind to not include characters who could fly or float freely in the sky, so I sealed the Fuwa Fuwa no Mi away (because it's a pirate manga). But because it's for a movie, I used it. That character has returned to the original story. It's true that a strange re-import has occurred.
D: I have a question. Bonney's Devil Fruit is the "Toshi Toshi no Mi", which allows her to change her age freely. Does that mean that she won't die of her natural lifespan? P.N. anir
O:You would think so, right? However, inchapter 1072, she says "my powers don't work on living things indefinitely." So, at a certain point, the effects will wear off.
D: Oda-sensei! Can Kuma use the Nikyu Nikyu no Mi ability to fly only to places he's been to? P.N. Polaris
O:Yes! That's right!! Kuma used to travel all over the world!
D: Franky! There's "Vega Cola" on Egghead. Is it delicious? Please give us your food review! P.N. Kei
F:Sluuuuurp!!Fah!
O:I believe what he's trying to say is, "The moment you drink it, the aroma of apple and lemon, enhanced by the ginger, spreads in your mouth. The ashwagandha and ginkgo biloba extract really activates my brain, and ideas just keep coming!" he says.
D: IsAlphafromCP8a relative ofKalifa? Also,CP9is a secret organization, but isCP0secret? P.N. Haruhime
O:Alpha is Kalifa's younger sister. 22 years ago, CP9 included Laskey, their father. Cipher Pol typically trains orphaned children to become intelligence agents, so this is a rare case. Having said that, they were raised individually, with basically no family ties. In the world of spycraft, love and emotions are an exploitable weakness!
D: Hello Oda! I am writing to you from France because I would like to know how the members of CP9 joined CP0. Good luck! P.N. CATELA Valentin
O:Yes, the Japanese is a bit weird because of the translation lol. I've included it as-is. Let's go back to when CP9 lost at Enies Lobby. From there,CP9's Independent Reportwas serialized on the covers, and CP9 was accused of failing their mission. Director Spandam took advantage of that, so CP9 vanished into the wind. That was beginning of their training to become even stronger. Meanwhile, Spandam somehow became the head of CP0 through the influence of his father, Spandine. Then, Lucci and his friends teamed up with Spandine to uncover a criminal conspiracy by Underworld bigwigs and former Level 6 prisoners, and destroyed the organization to stop it. Due to that incident, Lucci and his friends returned to the intelligence service as CP0 agents. Spandine later fell sick lost much of his influence, causing Spandam to be demoted to Lucci's underling.
D: Please tell me the name and grade of Fujitora's sword!! P.N. Dahnia
O:Yes, sorry to keep you waiting. This is one of theSupreme Grade Blades!! It's called theYakuza Kasen, ashikimizue. It is a famous sword made byFugetsu Kisaburoof theWano Country, and has a straight edge with a sharpkiriha-zukuritaper.
D: Inchapter 1096, there was a member of the Bonney Pirates who looked exactly like the freckled boy wearing a ten-gallon hat, one of the two boys who threw rocks at Kuma. Could they be the same person? P.N. Tokomon
O:First, let's take a look at Bonney's debut scene.
Note: the SBS uses pictures of them as children or young adults
All four of them appear in theSorbet Kingdom. There is also a scene where they have crushes onGinny. In other words, the members of the Bonney Pirates were originally Kuma's friends, and were strong fishermen who watched over the growth of Bonney. They view Bonney as their daughter, and will protect her with all their might!! After their encounter withAkainu, Bonney escaped, but couldn't reunite with Gyogyo and the others, so she now searches for her father alone. She later finds her father onMary Geoiseand escapes in aTajine Kingdomship. After that, she sneaks aboard a government ship and approachesEgghead, but is shipwrecked! She is saved by Luffy and the others and tells them "I will kill Vegapunk!"... And that's where we are now.
D: Is the reason Marcus Mars is always standing up because he forgot his homework and the teacher yelled at him to stand? P.N. Sein
O:Is that so?! What made you think of that?! Lol. I don't feel like investigating, so, sure!
D: Is Imu-sama modeled after the faces female readers make after reading Oda-sensei's dirty jokes in the SBS? P.N. Yutan
O:Oh no... is summer gone in Japan? The air is kind of cold.
D: Shall I tell you Sanadacchi's three sizes? P.N. NAYEE
O:Absolutely not!!I don't need it!! It's your fault it's cold!!
D: Inchapter 1100, Kuma and Saturn talked about the Warlord that Ace defeated. What kind of guy was he? P.N. Goshun
O:This is him. His name isHanafuda. He has a hobby of collecting Zoan-type Devil Fruits, especially Ancient ones, and it is said that he may have been plotting something, but now we won't know. His height is 514 cm and his epithet is "King of Lizards".
D:Draw a man's butt!Oh, sorry, please draw it (dogeza). If possible, I would like the male butts of all the Straw Hat Pirates! from T Harumi
O:No, I won't draw them!! I'm not interested.
D: It looks like there are two buttons on Nami's chest. Can you tell me what they are? P.N. Sanadacchi
O:That's right ♡ This is much more to my liking, so I'll gladly...Sanada!!If it weren't for you!!Ah... it's cold... is it winter? Their gazes...!! The girls' gazes!! Well, that's it! See you next volume of SBS!!
Translated bymachine translation, and corrected using translations bypewpieceandTheWillOfMarcoand translations byArtur-Library of Oharawhen available. All translations later modified based on translations byVIZ Media.
Translations may have been modified since the original versions.
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 110.
D: Thank you for your hard work. Sensei, you should yell to clear your mood. What do you want to yell?
P.N. Omote Nekoko
O:Okay!! Then I'll place these three plates 5 meters away and jump in and shout the words I want to. Ready, start!! Dadadada guki! "Ouch! I sprained my ankle!" I'm stumbling!!"I want to wear pants on my head for a change of pace!!"
D: There's a big problem. A huge insect appeared. Please give me the manuscript you just drew so I can roll it up and kill it. P.N. One-Winged Strangler
O:That's tough! Yes! Hit it hard!!(Bam!!)It was dangerous! I can clearly see the insect crushed in the manuscript! ... So fill this part with black... there!Imuhas appeared!!
D: Sensei!!!Yamatowas hungry and ate aDevil Fruit, but what did his Beast and Human-Beast Forms look like when he was young!? P.N. I Want to Take a Walk on Mt. Nao
O:Here.
D:Longarmshave two elbows on each arm!! Are there different names for each? P.N. Kurohannya
O:That's amazing! This question is amazing! I'm impressed. Yes, of course there is. The lower elbow near the hand is the "Friend Elbow", and the upper elbow near the shoulder is called the "Lover Elbow". It seems to indicate the emotional distance from another person.
D: I love theSWORDmembers so much that I want to know their ages and other profiles. ArePrinceandKujakufrom the same generation as CaptainDrake? P.N. Taranome
O:It's hard to say what exactly a profile is, but things like age and height leave room for imagination. More detailed character data can be found in theVivre Card - One Piece Visual Dictionary. I don't mean to be mean and not write about it in the SBS so you have to buy it, but I physically can't compete with you in terms of the amount of information. I'll answer if you ask, so please forgive me.
D: Here are the results of counting the number of times a certain word was said by Oda in the SBS, from volumes 4 to 106.
What on Earth is the SBS?P.N. Sukiyaki (15-years-old)
O:Yes... uh... that's a lie, right?(sweats)I really don't remember. If I had to guess, it would be Sanada. To me, SBS is a pure space, like a quiet forest with sunlight filtering through the trees, playing with the birds and squirrels... So...don't count a second time!!(huff!)(reverse anger)
Gomu Gomu no Gigant
Oh, there's a postcard from a child! They didn't mention their age, so maybe they're in elementary school? Feel free to ask any questions.
D: Hello Oda-sensei!! Involume 103,chapter 1045, Luffy usesGomu Gomu no Gigant, but why are his clothes and shoes also becoming giant? Tell me!! from Yuuma
O:Yes. Yuuma-kun, listen carefully. If Luffy's clothes get torn when he gets huge,his penis will fall out, right!? Yuuma-kun!!
Nyornyo Nyarmani
D: Are the suits that theFive Eldersalways wear from a high-end brand? Is there a store inMary Geoisethey use? I'd like to know more about the designer! P.N. tataiita
O:Ah. In theNagagutsu Kingdomin theEast Blue, there is a high-end brand calledNyornyo Nyarmanithat specializes in suits, and the Five Elders only wear custom-made suits from that brand.
D: Inchapter 1103, Luffy is so hungry he can't move, but inchapter 1106, he is full. Who gave Luffy food? P.N. K.Hazuki
O:In chapter 1103, he suddenly starts eating. Who on Earth responded to Luffy's please for "meat..."? Was it Sanji or Franky, who were nearby?KizaruandSentomaruwere there too... It seems like nobody found out. In other words, their actions went unnoticed, like it was done at the "speed of light". Hmm. I don't know either. Speed of light...
D: What willJinbebe like in 20 and 40 years? P.N. Quail
O:Jinbe is 46 years old now, so let's make him 60 and 80 years old.
Rear Admiral Kadar
D: Oda-sensei! Heso! Among the nineVice Admiralsheading toEggheadis a character who looks like Rear AdmiralKadar, who appeared in theFish-Man Island Arcin the past! Has he been promoted? Also, please tell us the profiles of the other Vice Admirals! P.N. Ma-chan
O:Rear Admiral Kadar does look similar, but he's a different person. This one isHound. Sorry for the rough introduction, but I'll introduce the characters other than Vice AdmiralDoberman, who's been around for a long time.
Top row, from left to right:
Bottom row, from left to right:
D: I would like to seeIsshoandAramakiin their young days. P.N. Yuu
O:Okay.
D: Odacchi! Garchu!! Please tell me Fujitora and Ryokugyu's previous jobs, quasar!! P.N. Grillin
O:Yes, well, the two of them were in charge of the national defense ofWorld Governmentmember states, but they were recruited by theMarinesthrough a system called theWorld Military Draft.
Well, that's about it! That's it! See you next volume!!!
Translated bymachine translation, and corrected using translations bypewpieceandTheWillOfMarcoand translations byArtur-Library of Ohara, when available.
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 111.
D: Hello Oda-sensei! I just picked up this piece of paper. Hmmm...Ticket to Start SBSYay!!!! Let's start the SBS!!! See you soon! P.N. Abba
D: When the SBS started, Odan was dancing naked in front of everyone. P.N. Yutan
O:Yay everyone!! This volume is starting with a bang 𝅘𝅥𝅮 Let's dance 𝅘𝅥𝅮 Yay 𝅘𝅥𝅮No way!!!(It's started)
D: I want to knowArlong's reaction when he found out thatJinbejoined theStraw Hat Pirates. P.N. Kuboshow
O:This →
D: If Luffy hadSatelliteslikeVegapunk, what would the six of them be like? P.N. Yukita
O:York(Greed) -York(Greed) -York(Greed) -York(Greed) -York(Greed) -Atlas(Violence)
That's not good!!
D: Odacchi! Odacchi! Recently, "dirty jokes" have become popular among boys. And many of them areOne Piecereaders... isOne Piecethe cause? P.N. Ham D
O:All riiiight! Let's sue!!
D: I don't really understand theCross Guildsystem. You said it was like a company or business, but is it profitable? If they give money to civilians who killMarines, I think they would go bankrupt quickly. P.N. Yutan
O:The only one who would be troubled by the existence of Cross Guild is the Marines. The fear of not knowing who will attack you or from where destroys your morale. As the Marines slow down, the "Dark Companies" of theUnderworldcan operate more easily, meaning they make more money. Cross Guild serves as the front face, while the "Dark Companies" pay for the bounty sums. There's even a dark side of this world that gambles on "which Marine will be killed?", resulting in even more money from society that contributes to the fund. So really, they're making a significant profit.
D: If you could eat twoDevil Fruits, which would you choose? I would pick theSuke Suke no Miand theGoro Goro no Mi! Is it the same for you, Oda-sensei? P.N. Nori K
O:Eh~~! I can eat two?! What should I do with the Suke Suke no Mi (already decided)? The Suke Suke no Mi (already decided) and... Hmmm... The Suke Suke no Mi (already decided) and theWapu Wapu no Mi(deciding on the purpose)!! U-uh... (stands up) to help people!!
O:Oh, I'll explain before I forget, but at the end on pages 216-219, there's a segment called "Odacchi Answers 10 Questions with 10 Answers!!", which was originally published during a break fromShonen Jump!
D: You don't see many vertical speech bubbles inOne Piece. Long sentences are often broken down into separate lines or speech bubbles. Why do you do that? P.N. New Year's Card
O:Oh... you noticed, lol. I'm surprised. I think in the early series, there were still vertical speech bubbles. One time, I saw an international version of the series, and the horizontal English was packed into a vertical bubble, so it looked like the vertical was too crowded. When it gets translated for various countries, the language is commonly written horizontally, so I made the speech bubbles easy to read no matter what language they're translated to.
D: I've come up with a new nickname for Oda! "Odapoyo"(おだぽよ?)is cute! Please use it! P.N. Ivy
O:Thank you. I'm an old man, you know?
D:Shakasaid thatZoan-type Devil Fruit users typically have their personalities absorbed when they Awaken, so were theJailer BeastsfromImpel Downpeople whose personalities were absorbed? P.N. Hikaruko
O:Yes! That was close, Lucci.
D: Good morning, Oda-sensei! How doesShanksroll up his sleeves even though he only has one arm? P.N. American Stock Exchange
O:What!? That's what you're wondering about!! It's certainly true... but don't worry. It's that kind of shirt!!! There are all kinds. "Short sleeves", "long sleeves", "rolled sleeves" ← This. This is a "rolled-up shirt". Has Shanks' sleeves ever not been rolled up!? Right!?
D: Hello Oda-chan!! Inchapter 967, was the bridge that theRoger PiratesandOdenlooking atTequila Wolf? Or was itBourbon Wolf? What is the name of the planet that Luffy and his friends are adventuring on? P.N. Kiri
O:What!? That's your focus!! Well, first of all, the planet is called the "Blue Planet". And the bridge they were looking at... was not actually Tequila Wolf! You know? I won't tell you if it's Bourbon Wolf, but it's definitely not Tequila Wolf. I can tell you it's a bridge!! We know there are four bridges afterchapter 1125, so there's no way we could have known back in chapter 967, but going back to chapter 967, why did you think of that? Amazing.
D: Hello!! Oda-sensei!! In the case of anArtificial Devil Fruit, what happens when the user dies? P.N. Zerva
O:You're asking if it will regrow? It won't!! The power disappears!!
Left: "Celestial Dragon"Right: "Banana Coco"
D: Does theCelestial Dragon"banana coco"-looking hairstyle have a name? P.N. Taro
O:So, you're calling that part the "banana coco"!? LOL I'm a bit taken aback by that nickname. Well, it seems there isn't an official name for it, so let's not talk about it! That top part of the Celestial Dragon's hairstyle is called the "noble opener". It looks like a wine opener, so it's easy to remember. Shall we open it? You guys!
D: My mother, who used to think anime was childish, and my friend, who doesn't like reading comics, started reading the manga after watching the live-action version and are now completely hooked! I'm so happy! Oda-sensei, you're no ordinary person after all. What kind of Devil Fruit would you have to eat to be able to draw manga and work on the live action version at the same time? P.N. XK
O:Yes~~~~! This is a really nice postcard!! P.N. XK-chan is from overseas, and this is it! Your mother says "anime is childish", and she's right. In other countries, it's normal for adults not to watch anime or manga. It used to be the same in Japan. It would be interesting if there was a "global magazine" where people all over the world, both children and adults, could look forward to manga serializations. It would motivate me even more.
(Top left, clockwise): Nika, Luffy, Chopper, Nami, Robin, Sanji, Zoro, Jinbe, Brook, Usopp, Franky.Name: "Warrior of Liberation Nue"
D: Oda-chan! Please try the "Miracle Fusion" for the first time in 20 years! What will happen! I wonder if it will be three Super Gargons!!! P.N. 420 Land
O:Let's do it!! Wow! It's Awakened!!
D: IsHanafuda, who was revealed inSBS Volume 109, related toUltiandPage One? P.N. Tatsuya
O:Eh~~~~~!! Umm... that guy. The former Warlord that was beaten by Ace. I went to so much trouble to hide it. Well, it's fine. Yes, they're parent and children. The important thing is the relationship between Hanafuda andKaidou. Although they used to clash as pirates, they share the same goal and are now in a cooperative relationship. It seems that he trusted him enough to leave his children with him, while he engaged in his hobby of collecting Ancient Zoan Devil Fruits. The reason for this was to strengthen the Beasts Pirates, as Hanafuda was impressed by Kaidou's strength and was one of the people who worked hard to make him Pirate King. Eventually, Hanafuda was defeated by Ace and stripped of his title as Warlord. On his way back to his children, he was killed by pirates who had a grudge against him.
D: Hello Oda-sensei!! When I was running around yelling Sanji'sDiable Jambeat school, my friends ignored me. What on Earth was going on? P.N. The Name of the Caucacus Beetle Is Caucacus Beetle
O:That's society.
D: Hello. My little Oda! I want to know howKidstoleBig Mom'sPoneglyph! Sending you lots of kisses! P.N. CATELA Valentin
O:Yes. The mistranslations are cute too. This one is from France. I'll kiss you ♡. First, Kid attacked the Big Mom Pirates' ship and defeated the officerSnack. When Snack begged for his life, Kid demanded a copy of the Road Poneglyph, then left after getting it. Although people thought that Kid ran away from Big Mom when he left, in reality he just achieved his goal.
D: Does Jinbe use the same kind of toothbrush as Luffy when he brushes his teeth? I wonder if it would be hard for him to brush his teeth if they used the same size toothbrush... P.N. Taro
O:Jinbe uses a scrubbing brush with a large handle to clean his teeth, but he only cleans his big teeth. He replaces his other teeth with a "pop!" sound. Being a shark, his teeth grow back easily.
D: Gomu Gomu no Dawn Paper(ゴムゴムの白い紙,Gomu Gomu no Dōn Pēpā?, lit. "Rubber-Rubber White Paper")!!! P.N. Megumi
O:Wow!! ------- Stop it!! ------ It's turning white!! ----- Turning blank!! ----- So, this is the SBS!! ----- See you next time!! ----- Wow!! ----- A blank slate!!
Translated bymachine translation, and corrected using translations byArtur-Library of Oharawhen available.
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
This is the collection ofSBSsections fromVolume 112.
D: Oda-sensei: "We're starting the SBS!!" while sticking my tongue out. Okay, now straight to the point. Why does Nika hide his face when he laughs? P.N. Chopper! I love him ♡
(Translator's Note: Written in a child's handwriting.)
Luffy/Nika acting out "akahara".Text: "Lower Conjunctiva", "Tongue Dorsum"
O:Hey!! Don't stick your tongue out!! That's bad for an eight-year old!! The SBS has started, and I haven't seen anyone stick out their tongue like that in decades. This is harassment from the inside of the lower eyelid (the lower conjunctiva) and the upper part of the tongue (the tongue dorsum)!! It's "akahara"!! When Nika laughs~? It's a hilarious expression that was used in old anime!! That's all. You can find it easily, just search on YouTube!!
(Translator's Note: "Akahara" is a term Oda invents here, by combining "red" ["aka"] with "harassment" ["hara"])
D:Vegapunk's cousinVegapantsis apparently onPants Hazard, but what kind of island is that and what's he like? P.N. Uraneko
O:Oh.I know that very well.Vegapants is the son of Vegapunk's father's younger brother, and he lives on Pants Hazard, an island south ofBaldimorewith a culture where all the residents wear women's underwear on their heads. He has an earnest and cheerful personality, but the island as a whole is set apart from the rest of the world. How nostalgic...
D: Hello Oda-sensei! I'm a boy who will be entering my first year of middle school this year. I have a question for you. I'm currently obsessed with ONE PIECE. I likeKizaru. My father has the first 82 volumes of the manga and I'm reading through them. I'd like to get him to buy volumes 83 and onwards. Do you have any good strategies? Please teach me. P.N. Yakiniku no Yota
O:I want to buy them for you!!I want to buy one for all the boys who read the manga without flinching at the fact that it's over 100 volumes!! But that's not realistic, so go with the "shoulder massage strategy"!! There is no parent who wouldn't love to have their shoulders massaged by their child!! Volume 82 is whereMomonosukevows to avenge his father. With his shoulders and heart relaxed, you should sayFather, I want to defeat Kaidou!!!That will do it!!!
D: Odacchi! I was surprised to see all those strange animals from the movieStrong Worldappearing one after another in theElbaph Arc! I really like the idea of bringing them into the main story! P.N. 420 Land
O:That's right. A lot of the animals I designed for the movie appear in Elbaph. Well, it's a pain to think of something new... but, I originally created those animals with the theme of "what would happen if living things evolved in a world where strength is everything", so it was actually pretty easy... well, I thought that animals from a country of warriors would be the same, so I included them! It's not like it was too much of a pain to think of something else, okay!!
D: Am I Shirahoshi's type? P.N. Koppa Mijinko
O:I can't deny it!!! But I know!! Shirahoshi's future!!
D: The characters featured inchapter 1122are that legendary pirate crew, right?! PN. Koedo-kun
O:Hmmm!! That's right!! Where on Earth did you find out about that? Lol. And how do I explain this? Lol. If you're interested, please search the Internet! It was over 25 years ago for a certainJumpproject, where I designedHippie the Skull Curry,Nobuhiro Watsuki-sensei ofRurouni KenshindesignedScimitarta, andHiroyuki Takei-san ofShaman KingdesignedHiro Gomon, and they formed a pirate crew.
D: Is the man with sunglasses inchapter 1096Gill Bastar? P.N. Kiri
O:Yes. It's a Hidden Character Discovery Contest! Lol. Gill Bastar is the main character of a manga I drew when I was 17 years old. How do you know that!! Lol. So, Gill Bastar, a member of theRocks Pirates, later had his body recovered byGecko Moria, and he also appears inchapter 450in theThriller Bark Arc. It's something you don't need to notice!!
D: In the28th SBS, you said your record for eye-popping was "18 Yaaarghs". What's your current record for eye-popping? Did you beat the world record? P.N. Yomogimaru
O:Let me explain. When I draw manga, I make the same faces as the characters, so I was asked "Does that mean your eyes pop out?" I answered, "18 Yaaarghs". Apparently, the world record is "84 Yaaarghs". I'm currently drawing Nika. That means I've set an unprecedented record of "222 Yaaarghs"! Thank you!!!
D: Odacchi!! Hello!! Was the "Left Hand of the Pirate King"Scopper Gaban's name inspired bySpace Sheriff Gavan? I used to watch it on TV when I was little. P.N. Broken Beaver's Tooth
O:Oh, you're from the same generation as me, haha. A lot of people have said this, but it's not correct. I love old movies, and sometimes I borrow the names of old actors. There's a famous French actor,Jean Gabin, who's a really cool guy, and I borrowed the name from him.
(Translator's note: "Gaban", "Gavan", and "Gabin" are all spelled the same in Japanese. Coincidentally, despite Oda's denial of Space Sheriff Gavan as inspiration, it was also named after Jean Gabin.)
D: What was Gaban's position in theRoger Pirates? P.N. Kei
O:Ehhh. Well, since the Roger Pirates were already introduced inSBS Volume 96, I'll just cover the key executives.
D: I really love the atmosphere of the town on Elbaph!! Were there any countries or towns used as models? Pen Name "Hinasuke"
O:I'm happy, because it took quite a while to design Elbaph. Thank you! Of course, the model is the buildings from the era of Viking in Scandinavia, and I imagined the culture and topography from there! It's the same village as in volume 86, but I drew it at an angle so it wouldn't be out of place and it wouldn't reveal it was on top of a huge tree.
D: Hello Oda-san!! What exactly are theDosundada!! Are they a hybrid race ofgiantsanddwarves!? (Or perhapsancient giantsand dwarves) P.N. Negizairu
O:Just a bit off! The correct answer is a hybrid of ahumanand a dwarf. The dwarfs' name "Tontatta" comes from the cute sound of their footsteps, but when it's a bit louder, that becomes "Dosundada". A hybrid of a giant and a dwarf is called a "Zushindodo". They're extremely rare.
D: Hello Odacchi!! SinceRipleyandGerd's b*easts are giant-sized, could they be called "W" (WORLD) Cups? P.N. Tsubasa-maru
O:That's great!!So stupid!! Lol, it's stupid but the best! Let's go with that!!! Well, I've been getting a lot of questions about that. If you do the math, the bust size of a giantess woman would be over 6m (19'8"). What cup size is that? I don't know!! But then... Tsubasa-maru!! Let's go with that. All giantess women have "W"-cup breasts!!
D:Stop it, Oda-sensei!!! You pervert!!!P.N. Yutan
O:No, it's a false accusation!! You're the ones who keep sending me questions like that!
D:Let's start a healthy SBS!!P.N. Exam-taker Yoshimichi
O:Right!! Let's do that, Yoshimichi! Let's set the stage, everyone. Now, for the next question.
D: After readingOne Piece, my mind is always filled with thoughts of Nami's breasts. P.N. Sanadacchi
O:Be quiet!! Sanada!!!
D:Odacchi!! I want to see Gerd and Goldberg as children!
O:Alright. I received a lot of questions about the New Giant Warrior Pirates and their childhoods, so I'll summarize them all here.
D: Odacchi! Why isGunkoalways walking around in panties!!!! Pen Name "Mochi-n Pudding"
O:Well, I understand what you mean about them being panties. They're similar, but if it is underwear, then Gunko would seem like a pervert, right? But no, it's different. RememberNamiandBonney's outfits on Egghead? It's a type of fashion where the hem of the jacket is extended. In fact, it reduces the amount of skin showing! So it's okay to show that! How rude!
D: SinceImu'sfirst person pronounis "mu", Oda-san's must be "da"! P.N. Kei
O:Ah, that's true. So that's how it works!
D: Did you know that the reason theOne Pieceserialization is "growing" more than Odacchi expected is because Luffy's Awakened abilities are affecting those around him? Pen Name "noriEZT52"
O:Ehhhhh!! Damn it!! So that's what happened!! Damn Luffy!! "Da" won't forgive you!! "Da" will never forgive you!!
(Translator's Note: Oda is using the made-up first person pronoun "da", as suggested by the previous asker.)
D: How is the "voice-recognition"Den Den Mushinext toLokidifferent from other Den Den Mushi? P.N. Polaris
O:Yes. So. Loki's body is restrained, right? The reason he can answer the Den Den Mushi even though he can't use his hands is because the Den Den Mushi can understand a little bit of human language and can connect the call. It can also be used to make calls, like saying "Hey, Siri!!"
Ah!! It's time!! See you in the next volume~~~~!!
Translated bymachine translation, and corrected using translations bypewpiece,TheWillOfMarco, andinumaru08when available.
-----------------NEXT SBS--------------
